University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Continuing Studies and Outreach
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Institutional Principles
Institutional Learning Outcomes for MSOE Undergraduates
MSOE’s Constituents
The MSOE Guarantee
Study Abroad
Vision Statement
MSOE will always be at the forefront of professional education with emphasis on both theory and technology, coupled with intensive laboratories and career practice.
Mission Statement
MSOE provides a sustained interactive educational climate for students to become well-rounded, technologically experienced graduates and highly productive professionals and leaders.
Institutional Principles
The fundamental beliefs of Milwaukee School of Engineering are the following:
The focus is on the individual student.
Lifelong learning is essential for success.
Dedicated faculty with relevant, up-to-date experience are the heart of our teaching process.
Scientific and mathematical reasoning and processes are essential.
Applied research and evolving and interdisciplinary technologies are vital in exploiting opportunities.
The development of communication skills is needed to function effectively.
The student experience is strengthened by interaction with the business, industry and health care fields.
The development of leadership and entrepreneurial characteristics is essential.
Students, faculty, staff and volunteers all share the responsibility of learning.
Strong personal values are necessary for success.
The alumni strengthen the institution through their counsel, encouragement and support.
Freedom with responsibility is the foundation of free enterprise.
There is strength in diversity.
Global awareness must be reflected in all activities.
Initiation and acceptance of change is required to anticipate and capitalize on opportunities.
Institutional Learning Outcomes for MSOE Undergraduates
A graduate of MSOE will have demonstrated competence in the areas of science and technology, society and culture and professional preparedness as defined by:
I. Science and Technology
Natural Science
an understanding of scientific language, scientific principles and the scientific method
an ability to conduct experiments and collect, analyze and evaluate data
Mathematics
an ability to process data, select an appropriate established model and calculate the results
an ability to formulate a mathematical model and estimate the reasonableness of the results
Information Technology
an ability to access and organize information
an ability to evaluate and analyze collected information
II. Society and Culture
Humanistic Studies
familiarity with contemporary social issues, cultural and historical perspectives, and expectations of responsible citizenship
aesthetic engagement through exposure to literature, philosophy and the arts
Social Interaction
an ability to work effectively as a member of a team
an ability to recognize the role of one’s discipline in the framework of social issues
III. Professional Preparedness
Communication Skills
an ability to communicate information, ideas and results effectively via oral, written, and visual means
an ability to produce professional quality presentations
Critical Thinking
an ability to apply knowledge to problem solving and decision making
an ability to formulate creative solutions to problem solving and decision making
The education embodied by these institutional learning outcomes ensures that the graduates are capable of contributing to society and growing intellectually throughout their careers and lives.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities, including but not limited to, the business, educational and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and to gain insights from them, and to provide them services of value.
The MSOE Guarantee
This fall, millions of American students will begin their quest for a four-year college degree. However, for many, it will take five or more years to earn the degree. At some institutions, the courses needed to make steady academic progress are often unavailable to students when they need them. MSOE guarantees that will not happen to on-track students. We guarantee for a student starting and staying on track, all classes needed for graduation will be available when they need them! We also will do our best to accommodate all students, be they on track or not. In addition, MSOE’s newest incentive, the Graduate Tuition Grant, is an exciting opportunity for students. With this new grant, MSOE bachelor’s degree graduates can earn a master’s degree from MSOE without paying tuition, as long as they meet certain criteria. Read more about this exciting opportunity in the
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
section.
We also recognize there will be times when graduates need to brush up on the subject matter from a course they have successfully completed. MSOE guarantees that graduates may refresh their knowledge by repeating any undergraduate course they took at MSOE, at no cost, within three years of graduation. This will enhance their job performance and may be initiated by the graduate or the employer. Courses retaken under the MSOE guarantee will be taken on an audit basis and no grade will be earned.
History
At the turn of the 20
th
century, American industry began a period of rapid expansion. This accelerated the use of electrical and mechanical power. As a result, new occupations emerged in technical fields. Engineers and technicians with knowledge and skill were badly needed, but few people were available who had a combination of technical training and formal education. Industry’s need spurred the development of progressive programs of technical education.
In this context, Oscar Werwath organized the School of Engineering of Milwaukee in 1903. Werwath was a practicing engineer who was a graduate of European technical universities. He was the first to plan an American engineering educational institution based on an applications-oriented curriculum. Milwaukee industries were vitally interested in this kind of training and called on Werwath to provide education and training for their employees.
From the beginning, leaders of business and industry cooperated in the university’s development, and a close relationship was established that has continued throughout MSOE’s history. These early supporters realized that their future depended on educational institutions that could prepare men and women to fill the newly created engineering and managerial positions.
For more than a century, MSOE has had many memorable moments, creating a rich tradition of educational excellence that has positioned MSOE as a leader among today’s universities.
Location
MSOE has a small university atmosphere within a vibrant downtown neighborhood. The 20-acre, user-friendly campus is located in a historic downtown district, just blocks from beautiful Lake Michigan. Milwaukee boasts 60 miles of lakeshore, 15,000 acres of parkland and hundreds of miles of bike trails, a vibrant fine arts and cultural community, major and minor league sports, a brisk live-music scene, and is famous for its more than 50 annual festivals. The city also is a business, technological and industrial center offering internships and part and full-time employment opportunities.
MSOE also offers select undergraduate and/or graduate course work in Wisconsin’s Fox River Valley.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and a member of the North Central Association, (800-621-7440,
www.ncahlc.org
). Individual degree programs are accredited by appropriate professional accreditation organizations as noted in each corresponding program outline.
The Academic Year
The official academic calendar of MSOE is published in the front of this catalog. The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses also are offered during the summer.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
The American Association of Colleges of Nursing
The American Medical Informatics Association
The American Society of Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
The College Board
The College Entrance Examination Board
The College Scholarship Service Assembly
The Council for the Advancement and Support of Education
The National Academic Advising Association
The National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance
Southeast Wisconsin Educational Consortium
The US Green Building Council
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Wisconsin Health Information Exchange
MSOE is also a member of the Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce, Milwaukee World Trade Association, the Greater Milwaukee Convention and Visitors Bureau (Visit Milwaukee) and the East Town Association.
Degree Programs
MSOE is dedicated to preparing graduates for productive and successful careers. Programs of study provide students with ample opportunities to progress in accordance with their individual abilities and professional goals. MSOE offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, noncredit courses and seminars, on-site and online educational offerings, and a variety of services that meet the needs of both full-time and part-time students, business and industry.
Students in a baccalaureate-level curriculum are encouraged to follow a carefully planned course progression track. These tracks, as well as program details, can be found in the “
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
” portion of this catalog. MSOE offers the following degree programs. The undergraduate programs are described fully in this catalog.
Engineering Field
Bachelor’s Degrees
Architectural Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
BioMolecular Engineering
Civil Engineering (freshman-to-master’s)
Computer Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Software Engineering
Master’s Degrees:
Civil Engineering
Engineering
Structural Engineering
Engineering Technology Field
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Electrical Engineering Technology*
Mechanical Engineering Technology*
Building and Infrastructure Engineering Field
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Architectural Engineering
Civil Engineering
Construction Management
Master’s Degrees:
Civil Engineering
Construction and Business Management
Structural Engineering
Computer Field
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Computer Engineering
Management Information Systems
Software Engineering
Master’s Degree:
Medical Informatics**
Mathematics Field
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Actuarial Science
Operations Research
Rader School of Business
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Business Management
International Business
Management Information Systems
Technical Communication
Master’s Degrees:
Construction and Business Management
Engineering Management
Marketing and Export Management
New Product Management
Health-related Engineering Field
Bachelor’s Degrees:
Biomedical Engineering
BioMolecular Engineering
Master’s Degrees:
Medical Informatics**
Perfusion
School of Nursing
Bachelor’s Degree:
Accelerated Second Degree B.S. in Nursing
Nursing
* Transfer programs only
** Offered jointly with Medical College of Wisconsin
MSOE also offers several double-major, dual-degree and study-abroad programs.
Graduate Degree Programs
MSOE’s graduate studies programs and respective admission guidelines are detailed in a separate
Graduate Catalog
. To receive a
Graduate Catalog
or additional information, contact Continuing Studies and Outreach at (800) 321-6763 or
cso@msoe.edu
. Also see the
Graduate Studies Programs
section of this
Undergraduate Academic Catalog
.
Graduate Tuition Grant
There’s added incentive for students to attend MSOE. Those who complete their bachelor’s degree can return to MSOE for their master’s degree, free of tuition charge, if they begin their full-time graduate studies within one year of graduating from MSOE and satisfy a number of criteria. The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant will cover 100 percent of tuition for 9-15 (program specific) graduate credit hours per term for select master’s degrees. For more information, see the
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
section.
University Scholars Program
The University Scholars Program (USP) is MSOE’s honors curriculum. The benefits of participating in the program include having classes with like-minded students, greater opportunities to pursue individual interests, integration of diverse topics and more in-depth preparation for graduate school. Also, University Scholar students will participate in settings that will hone their leadership skills through project work, professional presentations and interaction with regional leaders in various fields. The USP encourages independent, collaborative and cooperative learning. The program is currently open only to students who meet the enrollment criteria. For more information contact Enrollment Management at (800) 332-6763 or (414) 277-6763.
Study Abroad
Cultural and Educational Opportunities
MSOE’s study-abroad programs are once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to experience another culture in depth while taking college-level courses toward your degree. MSOE encourages its students to consider the opportunity these programs offer. Certain academic requirements are applicable - see program director for details.
Leaders in business and engineering today need a global perspective. For the future, we expect many employees will be required to have work experience abroad, some foreign language fluency and be expected to understand the challenges that come with doing business in multiple markets. The MSOE graduate should prepare for this future by considering our study-abroad programs.
Germany
Electrical engineering
,
mechanical engineering
or
international business
students may spend their junior year at the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, in Lübeck, Germany. Founded in 1808, the university is similar to MSOE in that it is an applications-oriented institution. Situated near the Baltic Sea, the beautiful city of Lübeck is a center of commerce, industry and higher education, and offers a variety of recreational opportunities to young people. Much of its Middle Ages appearance is still intact in the older portion of town, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The MSOE program consists of two semesters at Lübeck, with extensive breaks to travel throughout Europe.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Participation does not delay progress toward graduation since all course work taken is integrated into the curricula of each MSOE program.
Upon graduation, students will receive two degrees, one from MSOE and another from Lübeck University of Applied Sciences.
In 2009, the International Exchange Program in Electrical Engineering at MSOE received the Innovative Program Award from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Heads Association (ECEDHA).
Czech Republic
Students may study for a semester at one of the oldest and most respected technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. Founded in 1707, CTU consists of six schools and seven institutes with some 16,000 students enrolled in engineering courses. Prague’s famed diversity of architectural styles, the distinctive bridges arching the Vltava River and narrow, winding cobbled streets make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities. The city is the social and cultural center of Central Europe with an entrepreneurial energy coursing through its streets.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students have access to CTU course work beyond their selected major. In consultation with their academic advisor, students are thus able to select the number of credits taken at CTU that will transfer for academic credit toward their MSOE degree. (Taking classes that will not transfer to a student’s major may delay his or her progress toward a degree.)
France
Students who participate in this study-abroad program will  spend the month of June in Lille, France studying at Lille Catholic  University. The program is open to all majors, and all courses are  taught in English. Students can experience European culture while  satisfying six credits (two classes) of humanities and/or engineering  electives.
India
MSOE has established relationships with Manipal University in India and other universities and programs around the world. Students interested in studying in Manipal or other off shore institutions should discuss the possibility with their academic advisor or Dr. Charles S. Tritt.
Italy
Rader School of Business students now have the opportunity to study abroad at Florence University of the Arts in Florence, Italy. Students have a wide variety of elective courses to choose from, including sports management/marketing, intercultural communication, international banking, sustainability and much more. The program is currently designed to run for two MSOE academic quarters (either Fall/Winter or Winter/Spring). In Italy, students will take five classes during one semester and then two classes during the January intercession.
Key Features
All courses are taught in English
Students work with their program director/advisor to select courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE
Students will have the opportunity to take international courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.