Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate and Professional Education
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Academic Departments, Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Financial Aid Office
Student Accounts Office
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Tuition Grant
Alumni Tuition Discount
Refund Policies
Financial Aid Office
Main Office: Campus Center, 3rd Floor
Phone: (414) 277-7223
Fax: (414) 277-6952
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office is available to assist graduate students in obtaining financial aid and exploring alternative loan products. We encourage all students to visit the
Financial Aid website
for more detailed information. If you have any questions or want further information, feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at (800) 778-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
.
How to Apply for Aid
You can apply for aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). You may do so online at
www.fafsa.gov
. MSOE’s FAFSA school code is 003868. If you wish to apply via a paper application, please contact the Department of Education at (800) 4-FED-AID.
Eligibility
Admitted graduate students who are not in default or do not owe a repayment on any federal aid program are eligible for need-based and non need-based federal student loans. A student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per quarter to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans.
Please note the non-credit workshops offered through Graduate and Professional Education are not eligible for financial aid. Further note that nondegree and nonmatriculated students are not eligible for financial aid.
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-437
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Fax: (414) 277-4535
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
Graduate Tuition and Fees (2015-2016 Academic Year)
Graduate tuition
$732 per credit
Infrastructure and Facilities Fee
$150/quarter (9 credits or above)
Parking Permit (per quarter)
Standard Permit
$150
Motorcycle Permit
$75
Evening/Weekend Parking
Free (must have permit)
Audit fee
75% of the graduate tuition rate
Continuation Fee
(
GC 899
)
$100
Graduation fee
$75
Directed study
$1,145 per credit
Enrollment deposit
$250
The enrollment deposit applies only to M.S. Perfusion students, and should not be paid unless you have been formally accepted to MSOE. This fee is
nonrefundable
and will be credited to your first-quarter tuition bill should you choose to attend MSOE.
Late registration fee
$50
This fee is payable for all students who register during the first week of a term and is
nonrefundable
.
Returned check fee
$30
Checks received in payment of tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Bookstore, which are returned by the bank as “Non Sufficient Funds”, “Payment Stopped” or “Account Closed” will result in a charge of an additional $30 NSF check handling fee. If two checks are returned from the bank, the student will lose his or her check-writing privileges in the Bookstore and their student account will be annotated to require all future payments to be in cash, cashier’s check, money order or credit card.
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition, fees and policies at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Due Dates
Charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes. Students who have settled in full all obligations to MSOE will be issued earned certificates, diplomas and transcripts, and will be permitted to register for the subsequent term. A student must have a zero balance to register for the next quarter.
If payment is not received by Monday of the third week, a late payment fee may accrue at a rate of 12 percent A.P.R. (one percent per month) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a late payment fee on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file in the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a late payment fee on those charges covered by a company or agency.
If a student does not make payments when due, MSOE reserves the right to require full payment of the subsequent quarter before the student may register for that quarter.
Fall 2015 due date:
Sept. 21, 2015
Winter 2015 due date:
Dec. 14, 2015
Spring 2016 due date:
March 21, 2016
Summer 2016 due date:
June 13, 2016 for Sub Term 1 and 2
August 8, 2016 for Sub Term 3
Agency, Employer Sponsorship or Corporate Partner Network (CPN) Students
To allow flexibility for students sponsored by a company or agency, the following is possible: If the company/agency will allow MSOE to invoice them for the student’s education with no contingencies, a letter of authorization from the company or agency
must
be on file in the Student Accounts Office or must accompany the registration form. The letter of authorization must state exactly what expenses will be covered; i.e., which classes, costs, fees, books, etc. MSOE must have the letter at the time of the student’s registration each quarter. Students must also complete a Financial Responsibility form and a Payment Plan Agreement form. Both can be completed electronically by logging in to
http://my.msoe.edu
.
H.E.L.P. Payment Plan
MSOE’s in-house payment plan, H.E.L.P. (Helping Everyone to Learn and Pay), offers students monthly payment plans for amounts due. Students determine how much of their balance they wish to divide into monthly payments. Any amount not covered by H.E.L.P. will be due when billed. For further information, contact the H.E.L.P. administrator/senior collection specialist at (414) 277-2231.
Financial Aid Disbursement
All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
If you have more financial aid disburse to your account than charges on your account you will have a credit balance. Credit balance refund checks will be processed after all financial aid has been disbursed to your account and will be mailed to your local address. Please allow 10 days for credit balance refund checks to be processed.
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Bookstore, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly invoice. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the bookstore when purchasing their textbooks. You are able to charge your books to your student account during the two weeks before the term begins through the first Friday of the term (Please note that you must wait at least 24 hours after you have registered before you can charge your books this way). Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Student Invoices
All registered students receive an email notification when their bill is available to view online. For any student billing questions, please contact the Student Accounts office at (414) 277-7130 or via email at
payments@msoe.edu.
Please remember that you can always view your statement online at
my.msoe.edu
and you are responsible for all charges. MSOE will no longer send students paper invoices. Students can authorize third party access to view invoices online at
http://my.msoe.edu
.
Dual-degree Program Charges
Dual-degree programs offer the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in a dual-degree program should complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as an undergraduate student. Students are encouraged not to graduate with a bachelor’s degree after their fourth year because they are eligible to receive undergraduate financial aid for their fifth year.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into the Freshman-to-Master’s program in Architectural Engineering or Civil Engineering are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid, even though they may be taking graduate courses. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the undergraduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Students enrolled less than full-time (less than 12 credits) in an approved dual-degree program will be charged $605/credit.
Graduate Tuition Grant
Attention: Students who matriculated Fall 2015 are the final group eligible for the Graduate Tuition Grant. Individuals who start at MSOE in Winter, Spring or Summer Quarters 2015-16 are not eligible.
Eligible MSOE students now have an extra incentive to get their master’s degree at MSOE: it’s tuition free! With the Graduate Tuition Grant, you can get a master’s degree and put yourself ahead of the competition without paying tuition.
For the 2015-2016 academic year, the
MSOE Graduate Tuition
Grant will cover 100% of tuition for 9-15 (program specific) on-campus graduate credit hours (100% online courses not included) per quarter for the following programs only:
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering (graduate degree only)
Master of Science in Business Administration
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (graduate degree only)
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
Master of Science in Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering Management
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management
Master of Science in New Product Management
Master of Science in Nursing - Health Care Systems Management
Master of Science in Structural Engineering (graduate degree only)
Eligibility Requirements for a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant:
Must have an undergraduate degree from MSOE, and
Must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better from MSOE, and
Must have a cumulative major undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better from MSOE, and
Must be admitted into an approved MSOE graduate program, and
Must start the graduate program within one calendar year of degree conferral from MSOE with their MSOE bachelor’s degree, and
Must apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant before starting graduate studies.
Continuation of a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant:
The student must be a full-time graduate student enrolled in 9 to 15 (program specific) on-campus graduate credit hours each quarter with the exception of summer and the final quarter of attendance, and
The student must maintain a 3.50 or better cumulative graduate GPA each quarter, and
The student must be continuously enrolled as a full-time graduate student each quarter with the exception of the summer.
The student must complete at least 9 credits each quarter with the exception of Summer Quarter.
Fees:
Students will be charged $150/quarter for the Infrastructure and Facilities Fee with the exception of summer quarter.
Restrictions:
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant may be used to pay for up to 51 graduate credits, and
MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant may be used to obtain one MSOE graduate degree only.
MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant may be used for on-campus courses only.  MSOE courses taught exclusively online will not be covered by the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant.
Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees
Attention: Please note that the Graduate Tuition Grant is being discontinued. It will not be available to new students who start Fall 2016 or after.
For the 2015-2016 academic year, the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees will cover 100 percent of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc., for 12-19 (program specific) credit hours per term up to 51 total credits. The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees applies to the following dual-degree programs only:
Freshman-to-Master’s Degree in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science Architectural Engineering and Master of Science in Architectural Engineering
Eligibility Requirements for a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
Must apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees, and
Must be fully admitted into an approved B.S.-M.S. dual degree program, and
Must have less than 51 credits (combined undergraduate and graduate credits) total to complete the B.S. and M.S. degrees, and
Must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative major undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.50 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have completed application for federal financial aid.
Continuation of a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
The student must be a full-time student enrolled in 12 to 19 (program specific) credit hours each quarter, and
The student must maintain a 3.25 or better cumulative undergraduate and cumulative major undergraduate GPA and a 3.50 or better cumulative graduate GPA each quarter, and
The student must be continuously enrolled as a full-time student each quarter with the exception of the summer.
The student must complete at least 12 credits each quarter with the exception of Summer Quarter.
Fees:
Students will be charged standard fees for programs such as the Technology Package and Infrastructure and Facilities Fee.
Restrictions:
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees can be used to obtain one MSOE graduate degree only, and
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees will only cover up to 100 percent of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc.  Students with gift aid that exceeds tuition are not eligible.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees can be used to pay for up to 51 credits only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S-M.S. dual degrees will be granted only for three consecutive quarters (not including Summer Quarter).
Alumni Tuition Discount
Effective Fall 2014, MSOE alumni are eligible for a discounted tuition of $500 per credit for the following graduate programs:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Science in Nursing-Health Care Systems Management (MSN)
In this case, alumni include anyone who has graduated from MSOE with a bachelor’s or master’s degree. To be eligible, students must apply for and be accepted into the MBA or MSN program. There is no GPA or location stipulation. In order to register for any classes at MSOE, a student must have a zero balance on their student account or be a participant in an approved MSOE payment plan. For more information, contact the Financial Aid Office at finaid@msoe.edu or (800) 778-7223.
Corporate Partner Network (CPN) Discount
Employees of Corporate Partner Network (CPN) members may be eligible for a discounted tuition of $500 per credit for the following graduate programs:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Science in Nursing-Health Care Systems Management (MSN)
To receive the CPN Discount, students must meet the following criteria in order to qualify for the discount and submit the requested documents to MSOE’s Student Account Office by the start of the quarter:
A current letter of authorization from the CPN member on company letterhead and should include your name and the amount of the tuition benefit to be received.
A copy of the CPN member’s tuition reimbursement policy.
The employee is responsible to make any or all payments within 45 days after grades are posted for the quarter regardless of grade received. A late payment fee may accrue at a rate of 12 percent A.P.R. (one percent per month) until paid. If the account is not paid in full within 45 days after grades are posted, a registration hold will be applied to the student’s account preventing future registration until the balance is paid.
Must also complete a Financial Responsibility form and a Payment Plan Agreement form. Both can be completed electronically by logging in to
http://my.msoe.edu
.
To be eligible, students must apply, be accepted, and continue to be in good academic standing in the MBA or MSN programs. In order to register for any classes at MSOE, a student must have a zero balance on their student account or be a participant in an approved MSOE payment plan. For more information, contact the Student Accounts Office at
payments@msoe.edu
or (800) 886-6763.
Restrictions
Discounted tuition is available during any quarter where the employer is fully or partially reimbursing the student. Please review your employer’s tuition reimbursement policy to determine tuition reimbursement coverage.
MSOE alumni are only eligible for the alumni discount per MSOE’s graduate admissions criteria and cannot receive this additional CPN discount benefit.
Refund Policies
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Withdrawal from MSOE
Tuition refunds will only be granted to students who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition refund
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
No tuition refund will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the quarter.
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
If a recipient of Title IV aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required by law to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically-related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.
The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed an academically-related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the quarter as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed the quarter.
The amount of federal aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Any funds not earned will be returned in the following order:
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
Federal Perkins Loan
Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the quarter, the student may owe a repayment to the university. A bill will be sent to the student for any balance due as a result of returning financial aid funds.
Please contact the Financial Aid Office before withdrawing to determine what aid will be returned and what you may owe MSOE.
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete a minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) as well as maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Quantitative
In accordance with federal regulations, students must successfully complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. The maximum time frame to complete a degree is within 150 percent of the published length of the degree program. To determine the published length of a degree program, please refer to the
Degree Programs and Certificates
section in this
Academic Catalog
.
Students will be monitored at the end of the each academic term including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Please note:
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term.
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Attempted credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-C), earned Fs, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.
Completed credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-C).
MSOE scholarships, grants and loans are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (18 full-time terms).
Qualitative
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed at the end of each term of attendance including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 3.00 CGPA at the time of review will receive a financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 3.00 CGPA.
If the student reestablishes a 3.00 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 3.00 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Appeals
Students may appeal the suspension of their financial aid eligibility. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office, addressed to the director. The director, in consultation with Financial Aid Office staff members, will review the appeal and notify the student in writing regarding the appeal. Students may file an appeal on the following basis: The death of a relative, injury or illness of the student, or other documented extenuating circumstances. Students must also indicate why the student failed to make satisfactory progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. Students are limited to two suspension appeal requests while attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved will be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must reestablish a 3.00 CGPA and/or complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
MSOE’s Academic Plan will be developed on an individual basis which may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, Raider Center for Academic Success and/or MSOE Counseling Service. Failure to meet the requirements of MSOE’s Academic Plan will result in suspension of financial aid the next term of attendance.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.