Graduate Studies Programs - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Graduate and Professional Education
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Graduate Studies Programs
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
For a
Graduate Catalog
and more information on any of these programs, please select the “Graduate Catalog” option in drop-down menu in the upper right-hand corner of this page. Or please call (800) 321-6763, or (414) 277-6763 in the Milwaukee area.
Master of Business Administration
The MSOE MBA is an integrative graduate program focused on strategic business functions, organizational leadership and the effective application of business knowledge by organizational and business leaders. Built upon more than 50 years of tradition preparing engineers and technical professionals for management careers, the MSOE MBA serves students from a variety of industry backgrounds. It features strategic MBA content and analysis of leading edge business cases, and requires you to apply your learning to solve real problems in your business or organization.
The program features strategic MBA content and analysis of leading edge business cases, and requires you to apply your learning to solve real problems in your business or organization. You will experience rich faculty/student interaction that is the hallmark of an MSOE education. MSOE professors possess world-class academic credentials, have substantial business leadership experience, and are outstanding teachers. The innovative and integrated design of the MSOE MBA focuses your learning at the graduate level with no need for refresher, foundation or prerequisite steps once you are admitted. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Business Administration in Education Leadership
MSOE’s Rader School of Business and the Woodrow Wilson National  Fellowship Foundation have partnered to create the MBA in Education  Leadership program. The innovative program is targeted at teaching  professionals with a minimum of three years of PK-12 teaching experience  who wish to advance in school leadership roles.
The program, which serves the needs of public, private, charter, and  choice school emerging leaders, blends the best of leadership  development, business, and educational administration. Two key themes  woven through the program are the elimination of the global student  achievement gap through better school leadership, and the development of  school ecologies that support character formation.
The MBA in education leadership is a Wisconsin Department of Public  Instruction approved program for principal (51) licensure that offers  educators an alternative to traditional Master of Education  Administration degree programs. The program is based on a school  partner model that involves existing school leadership and MSOE program  faculty in the definition of field projects that will advance important  school initiatives and provide an authentic embedded learning experience  for students.
Master of Business Administration in STEM Leadership
The MBA in STEM leadership focuses on the professional development of  STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) teacher-leaders, and  targets those STEM teachers in K-12 education who aspire to enhance the  role of STEM education in their schools, districts or organizations, and  communities.  In addition, the program enhances the curriculum and  leadership education gained by Project Lead The Way (PLTW) teachers and  brings graduate credit-granting work under the direct supervision of  MSOE graduate program faculty. The primary target audience for the  program is thus teachers who participate in the PLTW program and hope to  assume STEM-related leadership roles in PK-12 education. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
MSOE’s Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MSCVE) program is designed to equip students with the advanced knowledge and skills necessary for professional practice in the 21st century. The MSCVE program satisfies the new civil engineering Body of Knowledge requirements for graduate programs developed by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Students will be able to specialize in one of the following areas: structural engineering, environmental engineering, water resources engineering and construction management. Students may also choose to take up to nine elective credits from MSOE’s Rader School of Business graduate course offerings to help fulfill the specialization requirement. Satisfactory completion of the MSCVE program also fulfills the proposed educational requirement promulgated by the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying that calls for a minimum of a master’s degree or equivalent as a prerequisite for professional engineering licensure.
MSOE’s MSCVE program is tailored to the student who already has an undergraduate degree from an ABET-accredited civil engineering program. Students who do not have an ABET-accredited undergraduate degree in civil engineering will likely have to take one or more prerequisite courses to satisfy ABET civil engineering undergraduate degree requirements prior to graduation from the MSCVE program. This prerequisite requirement is necessary because the MSCVE program will be seeking ABET accreditation when first eligible to do so in 2016-17, becoming one of the very few graduate civil engineering programs in the country to have that distinction.
Note to prospective graduate students: The master’s-degree only portion of the MSCVE program will begin accepting students in Fall 2014. For more information on the freshman-to-master’s degree program, see the
B.S. in civil engineering
section.
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
The new Master of Science in Construction and Business Management  degree was created in conjunction with the Rader School of Business and  the Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department. The  degree targets professionals who are working in, or have experience in,  the construction industry. It teaches professionals the leadership tools  necessary to compete in the ever-changing and highly competitive  construction management environment. It provides students with advanced  skills and understanding in construction project administration and  business management.
Courses are focused on business development, new and emerging  technologies for construction and project delivery systems, and  executive administration of construction firms. The degree prepares  graduates for upper-management positions in the construction industry. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Engineering
The Master of Science in Engineering (MSE) program enables graduate  engineering professionals to further their problem solving skills  through the application of advanced engineering principles and methods.  The strength of this program is in its flexibility. The program offers  students the opportunity to advance their quantitative skills through a  series of mathematics and modeling based courses; and provides for their  choice of specialty courses in electrical engineering or mechanical  engineering and/or other related fields.
The MSE is aimed toward engineers who are involved with industrial  projects. Students are encouraged to take engineering courses both  within and outside their discipline. Courses include topics such as  simulation and modeling, operations research, quality engineering,  advanced engineering mathematics, finite element analysis, advanced  mechanics, fluid power systems, data communications, control systems and  advanced electronic systems.
A nine credit capstone engineering project option is included as part  of the program. The non-project option is also available, which  includes two specialty courses and a three credit engineering paper in  the specialty. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Engineering Management
The Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) program is a  technology-oriented management degree designed to meet the needs of  engineers, business managers, and other professional and technical  personnel desiring to strengthen their management and leadership skills.  Graduates of the program possess broad business management knowledge  and skills and are prepared to move into general management positions in  a wide range of industries.
The MSEM program is based on the philosophy that, for companies to  grow and compete domestically and internationally, their managers and  leaders need a deep understanding of technology, management and  effective leadership principles. Faculty members have extensive business  experience and are committed to mentoring students to increase  students’ value to current and prospective employers. In addition to  their academic qualifications, most are employed in the discipline they  teach. Areas of particular emphasis include organizational leadership,  project management, operations management, financial management,  technical sales and marketing, entrepreneurship, quality and continuous  improvement, policy and strategy, supply chain management, and  international business. Courses are held in blended-Internet format, meaning they alternate weeks between online and face-to-face formats. This allows for more convenient scheduling while still giving students the ability to meet face-to-face with their professors and other students. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management
The Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management program  (MSXM) is a technology-oriented leadership program designed to meet the  needs of engineers, business managers and other professional and  technical persons desiring to strengthen their management and leadership  skills specifically relating to the value-added exporting of U.S.  manufactured products, services and technology. Graduates of the program  possess the broad range of knowledge and skills necessary for  management or entrepreneurial positions in a wide range of international  markets.
The MSXM program is based upon the philosophy that for organizations  to effectively compete in the increasingly international marketplace  their managers need a deep understanding of global business practices.  This knowledge enables graduates to provide the leadership required to  enhance the company’s market presence and competitive value for products  and services in a world market. Learning in the MSXM is facilitated by a  faculty having extensive knowledge of the global business environment  and international markets, as well excelling in a focused business area  or field of learning. In addition to their academic qualifications, most  are employed in the discipline(s) they teach. Faculty-to-student ratio  is kept small to allow extensive interaction among faculty and students.  The program offers students a cultural immersion capstone including two  weeks of travel to businesses outside the United States. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Medical Informatics
Medical informatics is information science applied to health care.  More specifically, it is the applied science at the junction of the  disciplines of medicine, business and information technology, which  supports the health care delivery process and promotes measurable  improvements in both quality of care and cost-effectiveness. The mission  of the program is to provide an applied graduate educational experience  that prepares professionals to participate in and lead  multidisciplinary teams in the development, implementation and  management of information technology solutions in health care. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in New Product Management
Success in developing and deploying new products depends in large  part on providing products that can compete globally, as well as  domestically. Effective new product management is a critical success  factor for all companies, regardless of their markets.
The Master of Science in New Product Management (MSNP) program  provides students a framework to enhance an organization’s ability to  effectively identify, develop and deploy new products and services.  Students learn how to effectively apply tools and techniques to identify  the products and/or services that leverage the unique strengths and  position of an organization, including brand identity, reputation,  capabilities (current and needed), market opportunities and resources.  Further, the MSNP program prepares individuals to identify and  capitalize on both domestic and international markets. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in Perfusion
Perfusion, the science of supporting or replacing a patient’s  circulatory or respiratory function, is an operating room discipline of  critical importance in invasive surgery. The program includes extensive  clinical experience and emphasizes health science information along with  the technology involved in perfusion. The M.S. in perfusion is available on a full-time basis.
Master of Science in Structural Engineering
This program emphasizes building structural design and analysis, and  meets the needs of students who desire increased knowledge to design  modern building structural systems.
Courses focus on structural design topics such as advanced design of  structural steel members and systems, light-gage metal members and  structures, reinforced concrete members and structures, wood structures,  masonry structures, foundations, and selection of structural systems.  Courses on advanced structural analysis, including applications of the  finite element method, structural dynamics and structural stability, are  also presented to provide a broader theoretical background for  structural design. Students with an appropriate undergraduate degree can  complete the program in five years on a part-time basis or as little as  two years on a full-time basis. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.