Graduate Admission Requirements - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
Research Opportunities
Professional Education
Administration and Board of Regents
Graduate Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Graduate Admission Requirements
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
General Requirements
Program-specific Requirements
Types of Acceptance
International Student Applicants
General Requirements
Admission information may be obtained online at
https://www.msoe.edu/admissions-aid/graduate-admissions/
.
Upon receipt of all materials, application files are reviewed by the appropriate program director. Most programs employ continuous enrollment and in those programs the applicant will be promptly notified of their acceptance status. The MSP program starts reviewing applications at the end of December for the class entering the following September. International graduate student applicants should refer to the
International Student Applicants
section for additional information.
General requirements for all graduate programs at MSOE include the following (also see
Program-specific Requirements
):
Completed application. An online application may be submitted for free at:
www.msoe.edu/apply
.
Completion of a baccalaureate degree in a discipline appropriate for the graduate program to which the applicant seeks admission (see “
Program-specific Requirements
” section).
Official transcripts sent directly from all colleges and/or universities previously attended. Official transcripts not issued in English should include a professional certified translation.
An academic record that indicates potential achievement in graduate studies. See
Program-specific Requirements
pertaining to grade point average (GPA) and the need for standardized examinations, such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE).
Letters of recommendation as required by the program to which you are applying. There are
online recommendation forms
available for your use.
For applicants whose native language is not English, language proficiency must be demonstrated by one of the following methods:
A composite score of 7.0 must be obtained on the IELTS. The band score in each IELTS test component must be at least 6.0 or higher.
A composite score of 90 must be obtained on the TOEFL, and each band score must at least 21 or higher.
We will waive the IELTS/TOEFL requirement if:
You have successfully completed the English as a Second Language program from one of our approved partners.
Your undergraduate degree is from an institution accredited by an agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education that utilizes English as the primary language (official transcript required).
There are
additional application requirements for international students
.
If a student is a permanent resident of the U.S., then a copy of a permanent resident’s card is a requirement for admission.
International student applicants who will require a SEVIS Form I-20 issued by MSOE for visa application purposes must submit a certified bank statement and affidavit of support or notarized MSOE Financial Certificate, detailing the availability of finances for the first year of study (including tuition and living expenses). If transferring from another institution that has issued immigration documents, an MSOE Transfer Form must also be submitted.
All additional materials should be submitted to:
Graduate Admission
Milwaukee School of Engineering
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
Program-specific Requirements
Master of Science in Machine Learning and
Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning
Technical bachelor’s degree
Programming experience with a modern language such as Python, C#, or Java. One year of college coursework or equivalent minimum.
At least a year of differential and integral calculus required. Multivariable calculus or linear algebra preferred.
Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering
1. Successful completion of the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning or equivalent coursework.
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) and
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy using AI and Analytics
A bachelor’s degree from an accredited university.
Computer literacy, knowledge of word processing and spreadsheet software, and a personal computer (laptop recommended).
Two letters of recommendation. If employed, at least one of the letters should be from the applicant’s employer or manager.
Test scores from the GMAT or GRE if the applicant’s undergraduate GPA was below 2.80 (on a 4.00 scale). All international applicants are expected to submit scores from one of the exams. Test scores must be submitted prior to regular acceptance into the program. Applicants are expected to submit scores that indicate potential for success in the program.
Master of Business Administration in Education Leadership (MBAEL) and
Graduate Business Certificate for School Leaders
Receive a reference from the applicants’ principal, superintendent, headmaster or charter organization officer stating support for the applicant’s ability to progress into a vice principal or principal role within three years.
Submit one other letter of recommendation, in addition to above letter of recommendation, from an employer or supervisor who can describe the candidate’s leadership potential.
Admitted students must work full time during completion of the program as a teacher or school leader in a Wisconsin K-12 setting.
Have earned an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution. Transcript(s) submitted and reviewed.
Have completed a Wisconsin DPI approved educator preparation program, or a Wisconsin approved educator preparation program in another state or country.
Hold, or be eligible to hold, a Professional Educator License in teaching or pupil services.
Have three years of successful, fulltime classroom teaching experience, or three years of successful experience as pupil services professional including 540 hours of classroom teaching experience.
Submit a current resume that details all professional and teaching experience.
Be willing to participate in an in-person interview.
Master of Business Administration in Education Leadership (MBAEL) (Non-Principal Track)
Submit two letters of recommendation, from an employer or supervisor who can describe the candidate’s leadership potential.
Work as an administrator or leader in a K-12 environment.
Have earned an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution. Transcript(s) submitted and reviewed.
Submit a current resume that details all professional and K-12 experience.
Be willing to participate in an in-person interview.
Graduate Certificate in Curriculum & Instruction
Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers
Concurrent or past enrollment in MSOE’s MBAEL program is required.
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MSCVE)
A bachelor of science degree in civil engineering or a closely related area from an ABET-accredited university. Students may be required to take one or more undergraduate prerequisite course(s) to satisfy prerequisites for graduate courses.
Test scores from the GRE General Test if an applicant’s undergraduate GPA is less than 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale).
Two letters of recommendation.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to meet with the MSCVE program director to plan a course of study.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering (MSAE)
A bachelor of science degree in architectural engineering or closely related area from an ABET-accredited program. Students may be required to take one or more undergraduate prerequisite course(s) to satisfy prerequisites for graduate courses.
Test scores from the GRE General Test if an applicant’s undergraduate degree is not from an ABET-accredited program or if applicant’s undergraduate GPA is less than 3.00 on 4.00 scale.
Two letters of recommendation.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to meet with the MSAE program director to plan a course of study.
Master of Science in Engineering (MSE)
A bachelor of science degree in engineering, engineering technology, or a closely related area.
Specific course requirements include one year of calculus, two courses in physics, and one course in each of the following: structured programming, differential equations and chemistry. Additionally, one course in each of the following engineering topics is required: mechanics, thermodynamics, circuit analysis, and systems analysis. It is expected that the applicant has earned a letter grade of “C” or better in each of these required undergraduate courses.
Two letters of recommendation from professors. If employed, one should be from an employer.
Undergraduate GPA must be greater than or equal to 3.0 for admission in full standing.
Test scores from the GRE general test that indicate potential for success in the MSE program, including scores from the “Quantitative” test section that are in the upper 60
th
percentile of those tested may be submitted if an applicant’s undergraduate GPA is less than 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale). Otherwise, the admission is conditional until the graduate GPA for first three courses is greater than or equal to 3.0.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to speak with the MSE program director, either by phone or in person, to plan a course of study.
Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) and
Post-Master’s Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate
The admission criteria for the MSN are aligned with the admission criteria for graduate programs. In addition to meeting the general requirements for admission to MSOE graduate study, prospective students must have:
A bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited university. Official transcripts from prior course work must be submitted
Current unrestricted licensure as a Registered Nurse. A copy of the license must be submitted at the time of application.
GPA of 3.00 from an undergraduate nursing program. An applicant with a GPA between 2.70 and 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale) may be considered for admission following a writing assessment and formal interview with the program director and graduate program faculty.
Statistics grade of C or higher in a three credit, level 300 or higher statistics course that has been taken within the last five years of date of application. If the course level was less than 300, a syllabus may be submitted to be reviewed for acceptability. (Not required for Post-Master’s Certification program).
Previous and/or current work experience as a professional nurse is recommended.
A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be done on all students entering the program.
Applicants to the Post-Master’s Psychiatric Mental Health NP certificate program must have the following courses on official transcripts, within 7 years: Assessment, Pathophysiology, and Pharmacology (as 3 separate courses); Roles course
Master of Science in Perfusion (MSP)
Applicants must have earned a baccalaureate degree with an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0 (on a 4.00 scale).
At least one undergraduate course in each of the following areas: physiology (or anatomy and physiology), chemistry, mathematics, and physics. Recommended course work includes biochemistry and statistics.
GRE general test scores having percentiles that average 50 percent or better.
Three letters of recommendation
, if possible, two should be from faculty who can judge the applicant’s academic abilities. The third may be from a faculty member or a supervisor/employer who can speak to the applicant’s professionalism, ability to work as part of a team, and related professional characteristics.
A demonstrated understanding of the clinical aspects of being a perfusionist. This may be demonstrated through thorough research of the field, speaking with perfusionists, or
observing surgical cases that utilize perfusion
(preferred if possible). Applicants should note in their essay the type of exposure they have had to the perfusion field.
Because there is a limited capacity in this program, meeting the requirements does not ensure acceptance. The most highly qualified applicants will be invited for interviews, and acceptance decisions will be made after interviews are completed. A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be conducted for all students entering the program.
Types of Acceptance
Full Acceptance
A student who has satisfied all requirements for admission will achieve full acceptance.
Probationary Acceptance
Probationary acceptance is used in cases where (a) there are academic deficiencies that need to be fulfilled, or (b) there is some uncertainty in the applicant’s ability to succeed in the program. Until full acceptance, probationary students may have restrictions imposed on the graduate courses they are permitted to take. Students with probationary acceptance must consult with their respective graduate program director each semester prior to registering for the next term’s classes. Failure to meet the terms of probation may result in termination from the program. Students may remain on probationary acceptance status for up to two terms. Not all programs will accept students on a probationary status.
Nonmatriculated Student Status
Applicants who have not yet completed the application process may be eligible to register as a nonmatriculated student. The nonmatriculated student status allows a student to begin course work without being accepted into a graduate program. Students are limited to this status for one semester. To be eligible for nonmatriculated student status requires completion of an application form, official transcripts confirming receipt of a bachelor’s degree and approval of the program director whose program is offering the course(s). Students should contact the Admissions Department to inquire about eligibility. Registration as a nonmatriculated student is no guarantee of subsequent acceptance into a graduate program. After the one-semester limit is reached, subsequent registrations must be under full or probationary acceptance status
.
Conditional Acceptance of Early Entry Graduate Students
Enrolled undergraduate students at MSOE may apply for early entry into select graduate programs during their junior year. Students who meet the admission criteria will then be notified that they are conditionally accepted and are eligible to continue in the program provided they maintain a minimum of a 3.0 cumulative undergraduate GPA in the remainder of their undergraduate courses and at least a 3.0 cumulative graduate GPA in the graduate courses they take as part of their undergraduate program. If these GPA requirements are met, students achieve full acceptance to the graduate program. If students do not meet those requirements, they will either lose their conditional acceptance or transition to probationary acceptance, which they must resolve within two terms.
International Student Applicants
Nonimmigrant international students holding an F-1 visa are required to maintain full-time student status as a condition of their visa. The student must document that they have sufficient funds for tuition, fees and living expenses for one year. Additional funds must be available for dependents.
MSOE has a very limited number of research assistantships and does not provide other financial aid or scholarships for nonimmigrant graduate students, nor does it employ graduate teaching assistants.
Prior to the release of the Immigration Form I-20, a deposit is required from all accepted international applicants who are not sponsored by a corporation or their government. The amount of the deposit can be obtained from the Admissions Department.
MSOE offers conditional admission for international students who have met all minimum admission requirements except those based on English proficiency. Upon submission of acceptable proof of English proficiency, an applicant’s application will be reviewed for full admission.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.