Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC) - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
The Raider Core
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Course Descriptions
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Faculty and Faculty Emeriti
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Air Force ROTC
Army ROTC
Navy ROTC
Main Office: Campus Center, Student Life Office
Website:
https://www.msoe.edu/admissions-aid/financial-aid-scholarships/scholarships-and-grants/rotc-scholarships
Overview
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC) is an educational program that trains students to be officers in the United States military. ROTC students learn leadership skills in college in order to have a successful military or civilian career. Each branch of the armed services has an ROTC program.
Scholarship opportunities are available through all the ROTC programs in a variety of academic majors. A description of each of the ROTC programs offered at MSOE follows.
Air Force ROTC
Students have the opportunity to pursue a commission in the United States Air Force through the Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (AFROTC) program. Required AFROTC courses are offered at Marquette University and are taught by resident full-time Aerospace Studies faculty.
This program offers students the opportunity to prepare for initial active duty assignments as Air Force commissioned officers. In order to receive a commission, AFROTC cadets must complete all university requirements for a degree, complete courses specified by the Air Force, and maintain Air Force moral, academic, and physical fitness standards. AFROTC courses are normally taken for credit as part of a student’s electives. The amount of credit given toward a degree for AFROTC academic work varies as determined by the student’s college and major. AFROTC offers three-, four-, and five-year programs leading to a commission as an Air Force officer. AFROTC cadets complete the General Military Course, a two-week summer Field Training experience between their sophomore and junior years followed by the Professional Officer Course, and must meet all required Air Force standards to obtain their commission upon graduation.
General qualifications:
Be a full-time student (12+ credit hours)
Maintain a minimum 2.0 grade point average
Be a United States citizen
Be in good physical condition
Be of good moral character
For pilot or navigator training, fulfill all commissioning requirements before age 32
General Military Course:
The first- and second-year educational program in Air Force Aerospace Studies consists of a series of one-hour courses designed to give students basic information on the role of the U.S. Air Force in the defense of the free world. All required textbooks and uniforms are provided free. The General Military Course is open to all students without advance application and does not obligate students to the Air Force in any way.
Professional Officer Course:
The third and fourth years of Air Force Aerospace Studies instruction are designed to develop skills and attitudes vital to the professional officer. Students completing the Professional Officer Course are commissioned as officers in the U.S. Air Force upon college graduation. Students in the Professional Officer Course receive a nontaxable subsistence allowance of $450 per month during their junior academic year and $500 per month during their senior year.
Leadership Laboratory:
Leadership Laboratory is a cadet-centered activity. It is largely cadet planned and directed, in line with the premise that it provides leadership-training experience that will improve a cadet’s ability to perform as an Air Force officer. The class length is four hours per week which includes two hours of physical fitness held at MSOE and various locations, as well as two hours of leadership training at Marquette.
The freshman and sophomore Leadership Laboratory program introduces Air Force customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, wearing the uniform, career opportunities in the Air Force, education and training benefits, and life and work of an Air Force officer. Experiences include preparing the cadet for individual, squadron and flight movements in drill and ceremonies and preparation for the field training assignment prior to the junior year.
The junior and senior Leadership Laboratory program involves the cadets in advanced leadership experiences. Cadet responsibilities include planning and directing the activities of the cadet corps, preparing briefings and written communications. They also provide feedback, guidance, information and other services geared to increase the performance and motivation of underclassman cadets.
Field Training:
Students pursuing a commission must successfully complete Field Training in order to advance to the Professional Officer Course. Students are competitively selected to attend Field Training based on their performance in the AFROTC program to include their academic and physical fitness record. Field Training is conducted during the summer months at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, AL. The Air Force pays all expenses associated with Field Training. The major areas of study include physical training, drill and ceremonies, leadership skill development and application, career orientation and an introduction to Air Force expeditionary training and Air Force deployment environment.
AFROTC College Scholarship Program:
This program provides scholarships to selected students participating in AFROTC. While participating in AFROTC, scholarship students receive up to full tuition, fees, laboratory expenses and $900 per year for textbooks. Additionally, scholarship students receive a tax-free monthly stipend of $300 per month as freshmen, $350 per month as sophomores, $450 per month as juniors and $500 per month as seniors.
Air and Space Force Careers:
Students who successfully graduate from the program will commission into the Air Force for a minimum of four years. Careers include, but are not limited to, developmental engineering, civil engineering, nursing, piloting, and space operations.
Requirements for scholarship and commissioning:
Be a U.S. citizen.
Be at least 17 years of age on the date of enrollment and under 31 years of age on Dec. 31 of the estimated year of commissioning.
Pass an Air Force physical exam.
Be selected by a board of Air Force officers.
Have no moral objections or personal convictions that prevents bearing arms and supporting and defending the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic (Applicants must not be conscientious objectors.).
Achieve a qualifying score on the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test.
Maintain a minimum 2.5 grade point average.
AFROTC High School Scholarship Program:
High school students may apply for an AFROTC scholarship prior to December 1 of their senior year. Interested students are encouraged to submit applications early. An online scholarship application is available at the
U.S. Air Force ROTC website
. High school students who receive an Air Force scholarship may also be eligible for further subsidies from their school.
For more information on the Air Force ROTC program, visit the Marquette University AFROTC website.
http://www.marquette.edu/rotc/airforce/
or call (414) 288-7682.
Army ROTC
Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (AROTC) is a four-year program offered at 270 host schools and over 900 partnership and affiliate schools. This program trains college students to be officers in the active Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard. AROTC students will learn the leadership and management skills essential to becoming an Army officer or having a successful civilian career. The Army ROTC mission is to commission the future officer leaders of the U.S. Army.
The Army ROTC is composed of three interconnected components: 1) on-campus; 2) off-campus; and, 3) the Leadership Development Program (LPD).  By design, these three components dovetail for seamless, progressive and sequential leader development and prepare students to receive commissions as Second Lieutenants in the US Army, Army National Guard, or the US Army Reserve.
On-Campus Component
is conducted at Marquette University:  The on-campus component is the Military Science and Leadership (MISL) Curriculum.  The curriculum consists of classroom learning, applied leadership labs, leader developmental exercises, Army ROTC Battalion command and staff roles and the Army Physical Fitness Training program.  Far more comprehensive than traditional curricula, each Cadet has access to digital learning products, interacts with the instructor during lessons and engages with multi-media technology.  Instructors are vested in the leader development of each of their students and provide leader developmental counseling on a consistent basis during each semester.
Off-Campus Component:
The off-campus component consists of a summer course designed to assess and develop Cadet leadership potential.  The Advanced Camp is a capstone training event that usually occurs at the end of a Cadet’s third (junior) year.  Advanced Camp is a 35-day training event that is designed to assess a Cadet’s ability to demonstrate proficiency in basic officer leadership attributes and competencies.  Advanced Camp is keen on placing each Cadet in a variety of leadership positions, many of which simulate stressful tactical scenarios and situations.  In addition to proving leadership abilities and military skills, each Cadet must meet established standards in physical fitness, land navigation, weapons qualification, communication, first aid, confidence obstacle course completion (to include rappelling), and tactical patrolling techniques.  Our Cadets often earn the highest leadership performance scores in the Nation when compared to their Cadet peers as Advanced Camp is a prerequisite for commissioning.
The other summer training event is Basic Camp. Basic Camp is a 32-day training event designed to introduce Cadets to the basic principles and basic individual training fundamentals of the US Army. The primary audience is lateral entry cadets and freshmen cadets. The objective of Basic Camp is to learn what normal progression cadets have learned in their first two years of military science classes.
Additionally, each Cadet is required to participate in two Field Training Exercises (FTXs) off campus, one each term, usually in September and April, from Thursday to Sunday.  These exercises implement practical lessons learned throughout the year derived from classroom, leadership lab and physical training curricula.
Leadership Development Program:
The Leadership Development Program (LDP) is the cornerstone of AROTC training and leadership development. The LDP is an individual-focused assessment process that standardizes leader performance measures.  It organizes complex components of leadership into a useful learning model - standards of performance and a methodology to achieve them.  The model accommodates all levels of proficiency and assures personalized development throughout a Cadet’s AROTC experience from program entry to commissioning as an officer.  Within the LDP, experienced and qualified faculty and staff (Military Science and Leadership Instructors) maximize individual potential by administering structured, progressively complex leadership experience and Cadet leadership skills are refined through self-assessment, peer assessment and instructor feedback (complemented by frequent one - on - one counseling).  AROTC extracurricular activity is another important dynamic to the LDP; Cadets are also given opportunity and are encouraged to participate and lead activities in a variety of events that contribute to their development and include: national level AROTC competitions (Ranger Challenge, Northern Warfare Competition, Buddy Ranger Competition, AROTC Basketball Tournament at Notre Dame University) Army 10-miler Run in Washington D.C., German Armed Forces Proficiency Badge testing, Norwegian Foot March Event, Cadet Color Guard, AROTC RECONDO Club, Service Committee.
We understand that today’s students need flexibility, so we offer a variety of options in completing this leadership development program.  The two primary options are: the four-year program and the two-year program.
Four Year Program:
The four-year program is divided into two phases: the Basic Course and the Advanced Course. 1) The Basic Course is taken during students’ freshman and sophomore years. These coursed are open to all students on an elective basis and upon successful completion students receive University credit.  Students incur no military obligation for completing basic course requirements.  These courses are the same cost as any other standard undergraduate course.  These coursed are available to undergraduate and graduate Marquette University students; 2) The Advanced Course is taken during students’ junior and senior year.  Students in this program must have completed the Basic Course, have two years remaining in college and enter into a contract with the US Army that gets them on a path to commissioning as an officer.  Advanced Course students take classes in leadership and participate in leadership laboratories to prepare for the 35-day Advanced Camp during the summer between junior and senior years.  Students receive monetary compensation for attending this training.
Two-year Program:
The two-year program is designed for students at four-year institutions who did not take AROTC during their first two years of college, students entering a two-year graduate course of study, or students who have previous military experience. Students begin formal training by attending 32-day paid Basic Camp. Successful completion of this training is a pre-requisite for enrolling in the AROTC Advanced Course.
Scholarships:
The Army offers several scholarship opportunities to MSOE students enrolled in the Senior AROTC Program.  High School seniors can apply for four-year, three-year advanced designee scholarships (covering most if not all majors at MSOE).  Scholarship applications are available on the Army ROTC website and are awarded based on merit, not financial need, by the US Army Cadet Command.  These scholarships have various incentives: 1) pays full-tuition and mandatory fees OR $10,000 in housing/meals annually; 2) pays $1,200 annually for textbook allowance ($600 each semester); and, 3) pays a tax free $420 monthly stipend during each semester their scholarship is in effect.
MSOE provides additional incentive funds for national and campus-based scholarship winner. MSOE will allow Cadets who earn an Army ROTC scholarship of any length to apply their MSOE specific scholarship(s) in the following way below.
1) Four-year scholarships: MSOE will sponsor students to receive $10,000/year for housing all four years if living on campus. Students living off-campus will not receive an additional scholarship,
2) Three-year scholarships: year 1: MSOE will sponsor full tuition and mandatory fees (excluding technology fees). No additional scholarships will be provided. years 2-4: MSOE will sponsor students to receive $10,000/year for housing for three years if living on campus. Students living off-campus will not receive an additional scholarship.
3) Two- to three-year scholarships: MSOE will sponsor students to receive $10,000/year for housing for the length of their Army ROTC scholarship if living on campus. Students living off-campus will not receive an additional scholarship.
Prospective students interested in a four-year Reserve Officer’s Training Corps Scholarship should start the application process during their junior and senior year of high school.  Four-year scholarship applications on the Army ROTC website.  Current college students may apply for four, three and two-year on-campus scholarships through participation in AROTC, MSOE, and the Marquette University Department of Military Science by first completing an online form located on the Marquette University AROTC website.
In order to be eligible for a scholarship, students must:
Be a US citizen
Be under 31 years of age at the time of commissioning
Have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.500 on a 4.000 scale
Satisfactorily explain any record of minor civil infractions
Pass an Army Physical Fitness Test
Be in compliance with Height/Weight or Body Composition Standards
Pass a Department of Defense Medical Evaluation
Have no moral obligations or personal convictions that prevent students from bearing arms and supporting and defending the Constitution of the United States
On-campus applications are submitted to the Department of Military Science.  On-campus applications may be submitted at any time during the school year. Students that apply are subject to a board of review by a panel of AROTC staff and university administration for selection.
Nursing Scholarships:
Our program is one of 41 colleges and universities designated as one of the US Army’s Nursing Centers of Excellence.  The US Army Cadet Command can offer four-year and three-year nursing scholarships annually to qualified applicants to the MSOE School of Nursing.  The application process and scholarship benefits are the same as those for other AROTC scholarships, visit Army ROTC website to apply.  Applicants should start the application process between their junior and senior years of high school. Nursing students already enrolled in the School of Nursing may also apply for two and three year on-campus scholarships by first completing an online form located on our Marquette University AROTC website.
Graduate Education Delay:
Students may request that their active duty service be deferred to attend graduate school, law school, medical school or other programs.  Army ROTC for Milwaukee colleges and universities is based at Marquette University.
All Army ROTC courses Basic and Advanced classes are at Marquette University.  For additional information, visit
https://www.marquette.edu/army-rotc
or call (414) 288-2051, call/text (414) 350-0351, or email
armyrotc@marquette.edu.
Navy ROTC
NROTC is a commissioning program for Navy unrestricted line communities, the Navy Nurse Corps., and the Marine Corps. Students who enroll in our program will become Midshipmen in the United States Navy Reserve. Our Midshipmen are full-time students who have NROTC course requirements through the Marquette Naval Science department in addition to the course requirements for their degree. Upon graduation, they will become commissioned officers in either the United States Navy or Marine Corps.  There are two ways to join the NROTC program: via the College Program or by applying for the NROTC National 4-year Scholarship.
Interested students should first apply for the National 4-year Scholarship online (
http://www.nrotc.navy.mil/
). Awardees will receive full tuition, a book allowance, and a monthly stipend.  In addition, MSOE will honor a student’s MSOE Academic or Transfer Scholarship initially awarded by MSOE’s Admissions Office. At a minimum, MSOE will provide funds to cover a double room and a standard meal plan while receiving an ROTC scholarship. A naval science class is required of all NROTC students each term, with few exceptions, for which MSOE grants credit toward graduation requirements. Students who enroll in NROTC at MSOE do so as “cross-town” students. Required NROTC courses are taught by the Naval Science faculty at the Marquette University campus. The primary undergraduate degree is completed at MSOE.
Many of our Midshipmen join NROTC through the
College Program
. Students who apply for our College Program and are accepted do not initially receive any monetary benefits from the Navy. College Program students are given several opportunities to apply for “Side-load” Scholarships (specifically, a 3-year, 2-year, or 1-year scholarship), which are similar to the 4-year scholarship except they cover three, two, or one year respectively. Once “on scholarship,” you will begin receiving tuition, a textbook allowance, and a monthly stipend just like the 4-year scholarship.
If a College Program student does not receive a scholarship by the start of their Junior year, s/he may be offered what is called Advanced Standing. Advanced standing is offered to our students who have not received a scholarship, but who are still recognized as individuals deserving of a commission. These students receive a monthly stipend and will still become naval officers after graduating.
Among other factors, an applicant’s degree choice may affect their competitiveness in the NROTC program. The Navy is preparing our future officers to meet the challenges in the next generation of technology and leadership. In structuring our academic programs to meet these challenges, undergraduate academic majors for NROTC Navy Option Midshipmen are divided into three categories or tiers: Tier 1 - engineering programs of Navy interest, Tier 2 - other engineering, math and science programs, Tier 3 - Foreign language and remaining academic programs. To keep pace in this high tech and diverse environment, approximately 85% of Navy Option NROTC scholarships will be awarded to students interested in completing a Tier 1 or Tier 2 academic major. Marine Options need not worry about academic major tiers as it will generally not affect their competitiveness. Nurse Option candidates must study nursing.
All of our Midshipmen, regardless of their chosen option (Navy, Nurse, or Marine), have a similar lifestyle. Each semester, our Midshipmen attend Naval Science courses taught by our staff of officers in addition to university classes required for their degree. A Midshipman’s term schedule and degree plan is something planned with a university academic advisor and a Navy advisor. Our Midshipmen attend physical training at Marquette on Mondays from 5:30 a.m. to 6:45 a.m. The Marine Option Midshipmen often attend additional physical training throughout the week. Every Thursday during the semester, our students also attend a general military training course called “Drill,” which is held at the Marquette Old Gymnasium from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with the entire Midshipmen Battalion. All Naval Science courses and physical training also take place at the Marquette Old Gymnasium where the unit is located. Cross-town students studying at MSOE will be given a Marquette Student ID so they can register for Naval Science classes through Marquette. Cross-town students are not charged for these classes.
Before commissioning, our Midshipmen complete at least one
summer training
event (normally at-sea for Navy Midshipmen or at Quantico, VA for Marine Corps Midshipmen). Only Midshipmen who are on scholarship or Advanced Standing participate in summer training. Upon graduation, Midshipmen are commissioned as Ensigns in the Navy or Second Lieutenants in the Marine Corps. They will then be active duty members of the Navy or Marine Corps with service length requirements varying based on the career they have chosen or been assigned (typically this is four to five years).
Please visit the NROTC website at
https://www.netc.navy.mil/NSTC/NROTC/
and our local website at
https://www.marquette.edu/navy-rotc/
.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.