Academic Regulations and Policies - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
Research Opportunities
Professional Education
Administration and Board of Regents
Graduate Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Academic Regulations and Policies
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Student Integrity
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
Title IX-Sexual Misconduct
Research with Human Participants
General Academic Policies
Graduate Transfer Credit
Registration and Course-related Policies
Withdrawal and Readmission Policies
Grading Policies
Academic Progress Requirements
Changing Graduate Programs
Graduation Requirements and Procedures
Awarding of a Second Master’s Degree
Certificates
Office of Academics
Registrar’s Office
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-420
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-377
Phone: (414) 277-7190
Phone: (414) 277-7215
Website:
https://www.msoe.edu/academics/departments/registrar/
The regulations and policies of MSOE include only those that are necessary for the proper organization and operation of the university. MSOE reserves the right to change the rules governing admission, tuition and the granting of degrees, or any other regulation affecting its students. Such changes shall take effect whenever the administration deems it necessary. MSOE also reserves the right to exclude, at any time, students whose conduct or standing is regarded as undesirable.
Student Integrity
As an institution of higher learning, MSOE is committed above all to the educational development of its students as responsible and principled human beings. As such, MSOE is accountable to all whom it serves and by whom it is scrutinized. The university has a priority interest in promoting personal integrity and in ensuring the authenticity of its graduates’ credentials.
The university is similarly mindful that the professions, business, and industry are concerned with ethical behavior no less than the professional practice of their members and employees. Therefore, MSOE students preparing for professional careers and leadership roles that are founded on responsibility and trust, must observe and be guided by the highest standards of personal integrity both in and out of the classroom.
The expectations of the university with respect to academic and classroom integrity are reflected in, but not limited to, the following guidelines:
Each student must recognize that even a poorly developed piece of work that represents their best efforts is far more worthwhile than the most outstanding piece of work taken from someone else.
Students must observe the rules established by a faculty member for a particular course.
Assignments prepared outside of class must include appropriate documentation of all borrowed ideas and expressions. The absence of such documentation constitutes “plagiarism,” which is the knowing or negligent use of the ideas, expressions, or work of another with intent to pass such materials off as one’s own. It is an act of plagiarism if a student purchases a paper or submits a paper, computer program, or drawing claiming it to be theirs when they did not write it.
Each student should consistently prepare for examinations so as to reduce temptation toward dishonesty.
A student may not share examination answers with others for the purpose of cheating, nor should they, intentionally or through carelessness, give them an opportunity to obtain the same.
Academic dishonesty or cheating includes the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for academic work through the use of any dishonest, deceptive or fraudulent means. Cheating at MSOE includes but is not limited to:
Copying, in part or in whole, from another’s test or homework assignments, worksheets, lab reports, essays, summaries, quizzes, etc.
Copying examinations and quizzes, in whole or in part, unless approved by the instructor.
Submitting work previously graded in another course unless this has been approved by the course instructor or by departmental policy.
Submitting work simultaneously presented in two courses, unless this has been approved by both course instructors or by the department policies of both departments.
Communicating electronically (unless approved by the instructor) during examinations with the intent to seek or provide answers.
Attempting to present as the student’s own work, materials or papers purchased or downloaded from the Internet.
Violating discipline specific health, safety, or ethical requirements to gain any unfair advantage in lab(s) or clinical assignments
Any other act committed that defrauds or misrepresents, including aiding or abetting in any of the actions defined above.
Claiming credit for a group project or paper when the individual student made little or no contribution to the group’s product.
Accessing reference documents during an exam or quiz unless approved by the course instructor.
A student of integrity will not support, encourage, or protect others who are involved in academic dishonesty in any way, and will furthermore attempt to dissuade another student from engaging in dishonest acts.
Students should follow the course policies of individual instructors regarding the use of generative AI in coursework. In the absence of such a course policy, students should assume that its use is prohibited until seeking clarification from the instructor.
Students should be aware that the use of generative AI to complete coursework, research, assignments, or exams may violate existing academic integrity policies, including policies on cheating and plagiarism. When in doubt, students should treat the use of generative AI in assisting or completing coursework as they would treat the use of another person’s work for assisting or completing coursework (which is not to say that generative AI is literally an author or academic source).
Students should also be aware that, apart from academic integrity considerations, the use of generative AI in academic work may
bypass the learning and development of cognitive skills they attend college to attain
introduce falsehoods, inaccuracies, or misleading information into their work
compromise the quality of their work, if it obscures a teacher’s assessment of whether the work demonstrates the students’ own understanding and effort.
If they are permitted to use generative AI in some capacity by an instructor, students are expected to
disclose how, where, and from what software program they used generative AI in their work
assume responsibility for any errors or inaccuracies generated by their use of generative AI.
Students have the right to opt-out of providing personal data or academic work to generative AI programs that are not FERPA-compliant, and faculty are expected to provide alternative activities or assignments in such cases.
A student who acts without integrity in an academic setting shall be subject to sanctions. Sanctions are at the discretion of the instructor and may take one of many forms. Example sanctions include written reprimand, penalty on an assignment or exam, or “F” grade for the assignment, exam or course. If the instructor assigns an “F” for the course, the student will not be allowed to drop the course. If the student believes the sanction was unwarranted, they have the right to appeal following established procedures. All breaches of academic integrity will be reported to the vice president of academics using the required form. Upon recommendation of the instructor or at their initiation, the vice president of academics may decide that repeated or extremely serious acts of dishonesty may be grounds for more severe disciplinary action. Such cases will be referred to the dean of students per section 18 of the Student Conduct Code.
Process for Adjudicating Isolated Breaches of Academic Integrity
The student will be notified by the faculty member either within one week of the faculty member’s awareness of the problem or at the next class session attended by the student. The faculty member will notify the student using the “Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form.” The student will have three academic working days to communicate to the faculty member any disagreement of information reported in the notification. The faculty member may elect to make modifications to the form, or retract it, in response to this communication. The final version of the form will be sent to the chair of the academic department or school and the vice president of academics. The vice president of academics will retain all such reports in a file and may refer egregious behavior or repeated reports involving the same student to the dean of students as describe in the Student Conduct Code. Any referral will only occur after the completion of the appeal process described in this section.
The following procedure will be used if a student wishes to appeal a faculty member’s judgment that academic integrity was breached. Filing appeals in accordance with these provisions shall not suspend the sanction declared in the case by the faculty member. The student will remain in class during the entire appeal process.
The student will have three academic working days after delivery of the written notification to initiate an appeal to the chairperson of the academic department or school in which the faculty member serves. The student will be deemed to have waived their right to appeal unless they file the appeal with the academic chair within these three academic working days. The statement of appeal must specify the reasons countering the faculty member’s determination that the student acted without integrity
The academic chair will have three academic working days in which to review the appeal. The purpose of the academic chair’s review is to determine if sufficient evidence exists that the student did not act with integrity. The chairperson must inform the student and faculty member of /her judgment within those three academic working days. If the academic chair finds in favor of the student, the sanction and the Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form filed with the vice president of academics will be retracted, unless an additional appeal is made by the faculty member.
The student or faculty member may further appeal, in writing to the vice president of academics, the decision of the academic chair.  This appeal must occur within three academic working days.
The vice president of academics has the final say in determining if a student did not act with integrity. To aid in this process, the vice president of academics will convene an academic review board, to include at least three faculty members, to hear the appeal. The academic review board will consider the written appeal and shall allow both the student and faculty member to appear in person before the committee. The academic review board is expected to provide an opinion to the vice president of academics within three academic working days from the commencement of its proceedings. If the final determination is that academic integrity was not breached, all forms will be retracted.
The student may bring a representative to any meeting established under this procedure. The faculty member may also have representation at any meeting.
Process for Adjudicating Egregious or Repeated Breaches of Academic Integrity
Upon receipt of report of egregious or repeated notifications for breaches of academic integrity that are upheld throughout the appeal process, the vice president of academics may elect to refer students to the dean of students for action under section 18 of the Student Conduct Code.
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
The Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) seeks to respond to, and to resolve in a timely manner, all complaints by currently enrolled students. A complaint is a written expression of dissatisfaction or formal allegation against the university, its units, its employees (including faculty and staff), and/or its students.  The process to appeal an assigned grade for a course is outlined later in the section titled “Grade Appeals.”
Currently enrolled students who have a complaint first should try to work out the problem by discussing it in a factual and professional manner with those persons most involved with the issue. Many complaints can be resolved when a student makes an effort to honestly communicate their frustrations or concerns. If a student has a complaint related to a specific course in which they are enrolled, the student should first consult with the instructor of the course. If necessary, the instructor will consult the academic chair responsible for the course regarding guidance on how to best resolve the student’s concern. For all other campus complaints (academic and non-academic) that the student cannot resolve informally with the parties involved, the student should follow the
Student Complaint Process
. The process includes the instructions, timelines, and official complaint form.
Title IX-Sexual Misconduct complaints has its own process and is excluded from the procedure above.
Title IX-Sexual Misconduct
Student complaints concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are excluded from this student complaint reporting procedure. Instead, the student complaint procedure concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct is addressed in the
MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy
. Students who are victims of sexual misconduct have the right to report the incident in a confidential manner. For more information concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, or for details on how to report sexual harassment or a sexual misconduct incident in a confidential manner, please refer to the MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy. Students who wish to file an official report with MSOE concerning an incident involving sexual harassment or sexual misconduct should report directly to the MSOE Title IX Coordinator, Dr. Kip Kussman (414) 277-7225,
k
ussman@msoe.edu
or to the MSOE Title IX Deputy Coordinator Gary Shimek (414) 277-7181,
shimek@msoe.edu
.
Research with Human Participants
MSOE’s Institutional Review Board (MSOE IRB) is an administrative body established to protect the rights and well-being of human subjects recruited to participate in research activities. MSOE IRB has jurisdiction over human subject research activities conducted at MSOE, human subject research activities conducted by MSOE employees, students, or agents at any location, and human subject research activities that use MSOE resources. All students, staff, and faculty at MSOE planning to conduct research involving human participants must submit an IRB protocol application package for review by MSOE IRB including proof of relevant training certification. Investigators must obtain written approval from MSOE IRB before human subject recruitment and research may begin.
In accordance with regulatory standards, MSOE IRB is comprised of qualified board members that include at least one non-scientist and one community representative. MSOE’s vice president of academics serves as the Institutional Official for MSOE IRB. Human subject researchers (e.g., investigators) at MSOE comply with requirements set forth in the code of Federal Regulations known as the “Common Rule” as well as Wisconsin State laws and MSOE policies. Federally funded multi-site studies requiring single IRB (sIRB) review involve coordinated local oversight by and advanced planning with the MSOE IRB office. In any study, if investigators intend to recruit study participants from locations outside of the United States, the primary investigator (PI) must first secure written approval from MSOE IRB prior to contacting research officials in other countries.
The purpose of IRB oversight is to ensure adequacy of the research plan, to minimize risks, and to maximize benefits for human subjects who participate in research activities. If the investigator is a student, the research must be performed under supervision of an MSOE faculty or staff member who, by their signature, assumes responsibility for the conduct of the research with respect to proper safeguards of the rights of human subjects (participants).
MSOE IRB approval is required before human subject research is undertaken by students for classroom work, independent study, senior design, nursing professional practice projects, surveys, master’s degree theses, or any purpose not specifically listed. This includes research with human subjects (participants) conducted for non-academic purposes, as well. Data collection by students or faculty/staff for assessment purposes only does not need MSOE IRB approval. Proposals for research projects conducted as classroom activities need to be submitted to the MSOE IRB if the intention is to share results of the project in a public forum or through publication. Class projects in which results will only be presented to students enrolled in the course and instructor(s) assigned to the course do not need IRB approval. It is the instructor’s responsibility to ensure that there are minimal risks for both the student researchers and their participants. If the instructor assumes that the project could lead to further presentation of results, either through publication or public forum, those projects will need to be reviewed by the IRB prior to the activity. Results of classroom activities cannot be presented outside of the classroom without IRB approval; retroactive IRB approval is never granted. For further information, please see the IRB Guidelines at
https://libguides.msoe.edu/irb
.
General Academic Policies
Catalog Rights
Each academic program is designated by a version number that identifies the specific set of degree requirements. When programs get modified, the version number changes to differentiate it from previous versions.
Students are held to the degree requirements in the catalog for the year they enter MSOE. Students may not enter or be readmitted to a program that is no longer offered or is no longer admitting students. Undergraduate students re-entering after non-attendance for two years are subject to the Readmission policy. Undergraduates continuously enrolled in a catalog program older than 8 years may be required to update to the current program curriculum. Students are obligated to follow policies from the most recent catalog.
Students may not be moved to a newer program curriculum by the department without notification. If a program curriculum must be updated for accreditation or institutional reasons, students may be required to move to the newer version of the program curriculum. A plan to update students to the new program curriculum must be approved by the Council for Academic Planning (CAP) and must include a communication plan to students whose curricular path is affected. If the program is updated for other reasons, students have the choice between the original or newer program curriculum. With program approval, students may request to be transferred to the newer version of the program they started. Approval is required to ensure the appropriate courses will be offered to meet the student’s graduation date.
Student Responsibility
Students at MSOE are aided in their academic pursuits by various individuals and groups including faculty, academic advisors, support advisors, program directors and the Registrar’s Office staff. However, each student is ultimately responsible for knowing and complying with MSOE’s academic policies, procedures, and deadlines. Each student is responsible for meeting all course, credit, and grade point average requirements for graduation with their chosen degree.
Furthermore, the majority of communication from MSOE to students, along with interaction with various procedures, occurs electronically.  Students are responsible for regularly checking their MSOE assigned accounts, for responding to official communication as specified, and for resolving any access issues with MSOE’s Information Technology Department.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
MSOE is in compliance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, the purpose of which is to let the student know what educational records are kept by the university, to give the student the right to inspect such records and to ask for correction if necessary, and to control the release of such information to those who are not involved in the educational process. Under the Privacy Act, certain directory information can be made available to anyone who requests it unless the student specifically asks, in writing, that this not be done. FERPA coverage is effective for MSOE students on the first day of class of their first term. The following is information that MSOE considers to be directory information: name(s), address, telephone number, campus email address, program(s), grade level, dates of attendance, enrollment status (full-time, part-time, withdrawn, not enrolled), degrees and honors received, participation in officially recognized sports and activities, previously attended institutions, class schedule, photographic, video, or electronic images, and program and promotion materials for university-related activities such as athletics, extra-curricular activities and academic competitions. Detailed FERPA information can be found on the
FERPA page
of the MSOE website.
Credit Hour Definition
For each academic credit hour, a minimum of one contact hour (50 minutes of instructional time) spent in class or actively engaged in an online or hybrid course each week is expected for lecture-based courses, or a minimum of two contact hours spent each week in the laboratory or clinical component of a course. Instructional time is regular and substantive student-faculty interaction in the delivery of course materials, whether in person or online.
For each academic credit hour, a typical undergraduate student is expected to spend two clock hours outside of class preparing for and studying for the class. Outside of class activities are required learning activities completed outside of instructional time, such as homework and reading. Time spent outside of class for a typical graduate student is expected to exceed two clock hours per credit hour.
An individual course that is offered in more than one modality or term length must have the same learning outcomes, the same or similar expectations for time spent in class and out of class for each modality to meet the designated credit level for the course. Courses offered as distance education must calculate contact hours through active engagement, as defined by the US Department of Education.
Non-traditional, credit-bearing experiences, such as independent studies or practica, must require the same total amount of learning time to be awarded the designated credit amount, although it may be distributed differently.
Regardless of delivery format, every for-credit course includes regular and substantive faculty-student interaction by a qualified instructor, and faculty are expected to prepare activities that meet the designated credit hours for the course.
Attendance
MSOE expects all students to attend regularly and promptly all lectures, laboratories and other sessions of courses for which they are registered. It is the student’s responsibility to add and drop classes from their academic schedule. Faculty are required to report students who never attend class to the Registrar’s Office. MSOE cannot charge tuition and release financial aid to students if they never attended class.
Faculty have the option of developing a policy concerning grade reduction for excessive absence from class. Any policy of this nature must be communicated in the syllabus. Faculty must report any students who never attended class to the Registrar’s Office by Friday of the second week of the term. Faculty should use the Early Alert system to report students who have stopped attending class. The Financial Aid Office may contact the faculty for the last attendance date for those students, so they can correctly process the return of financial aid. Faculty should record an approximate date of last attendance in their records.
While emphasizing that it is each student’s responsibility to balance academic course work and extra-curricular endeavors, MSOE administration and faculty recognize the commitment of students to MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular activities and seek to facilitate their participation in intercollegiate events and military service. MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular endeavors include varsity athletic competitions, academic conferences, intercollegiate competitions, and military service. The student affected will personally notify their instructor no less than two (2) weeks in advance of any class or laboratory session that may be missed, and the student will request arrangements for making up missed academic work.  Some events are scheduled without two weeks advanced notice, such as rescheduled events for weather and final tournaments, however, students will do their best to provide two-week notice for the possibility of these events and continue to keep their instructors informed of changes. For academic work (e.g. quizzes, tests, presentations, labs, clinicals, etc.), an instructor will give the student a comparable alternate assignment or require the student to complete the work at an alternate time and/or date. If the instructor considers it unfeasible to grant a student’s request for accommodation, the rationale for denial must be communicated in writing to the student in question and the faculty member’s academic chair within 48 hours. If the extra-curricular activity is an athletic competition, the rationale must also be communicated with the faculty athletic representative. If military service causes the missed academic work, the rationale for denial must also be communicated with the dean of students. The department chair will then communicate to the aforementioned parties the decision on whether the student is entitled to the requested accommodation. Following the department chair’s decision, students or instructors may send appeals to the vice president of academics for decision.
Student Accessibility and Accommodations
MSOE is committed to making its curriculum academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions, and mental health conditions, as well as to students who become temporarily disabled due to mental and physical health concerns (inclusive of injury and concussion), in line with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Accommodations can be made for qualified individuals and are designed to create equal educational access for students without compromising the essential elements of our curriculum. Eligibility for accommodations is done on an individual basis determined by student need. Students are required to submit verification documentation prior to receiving accommodations through
Student Accessibility Services
.
Culminating Assessments
A culminating assessment is required in every course. The type of culminating assessment should correspond with what is specified in the departmental course outline and be announced to the class at the beginning of the term. Final examinations must occur in the two-hour block that has been assigned by the Registrar’s Office. For specific courses, a final presentation, project, or other summative assessment may be substituted for a final examination, as determined by the program, and approved by the chair. The chair will notify the Registrar’s Office which courses will not be utilizing a final examination period. Undergraduate culminating assessments may not count for more than 40 percent of the final grade.
The final examination period will be Monday-Friday of the sixteenth week during the fall and spring semesters, the seventh week of summer subterms 1 and 2, and the thirteenth week of the full summer subterm. Graduate subterms will include an optional exam week in week 8.
Final exams will be held between 8 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. with, in general, 60 minutes between each final exam period:
8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m.
11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.
5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.
8:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Exams for classes meeting only on Saturday will be held on Saturday of the sixteenth week. No undergraduate classes will be held during the exam week. Voluntary (optional) class review sessions may be held during the exam week. Students are required to be available for their scheduled exam times as published on the MSOE website.
Students who have conflicting final exams are responsible for contacting the instructors and resolving the issue as soon as they are aware of the issue, but no later than ten working days prior to the start of exam week (the end of week 13).
If local or national emergencies prevent the university from being open on one or more days of exam week, the exams on those days may be canceled, rescheduled, or moved to a different modality. When possible, the campus community will be notified of a university closure by 5:45 a.m. on the day of the closure or by 3:00 p.m. for exams beginning at 5:00 p.m. or later.
More Than Two Final Exams in One Day
If a student has more than two final examinations scheduled on one day, students may request to reschedule an exam. Some requests may not be able to be accommodated. The request must be made at least ten working days prior to the start of exam week (by the end of week 13). The student must reach out to the Registrar’s Office, who will verify the exam schedule and notify the affected faculty, copying the student. The student and faculty are expected to work together to resolve the issue, but if the situation cannot be resolved, the student should petition the chair(s) of the school or department overseeing the courses.
Full-time Status
A graduate student at MSOE is classified during any academic semester except summer terms as enrolled full time if the student is:
registered for 9 or more graduate credits; or
registered for 6 or more graduate credits and employed during the semester as a graduate assistant for 15 hours or more on average per week.
Eligibility for financial aid is independent of this policy.
Transfer of Graduate Credit
For programs between 30-35 credits, a maximum of nine credit hours of approved graduate work taken at another institutionally accredited institution* may be transferred with the consent of the appropriate program director. The nine transfer credits may only replace a maximum of three MSOE courses.
For programs between 36-45 credits, a maximum of 12 credits of approved graduate work taken at another institutionally accredited institution* may be transferred with the consent of the appropriate program director. The twelve credits may only replace a maximum of four MSOE courses.
Individual programs may set credit transfer limits lower than the institutional limit.
A course completed at another institution must meet the following conditions to be accepted for credit:
(1) it was taken for graduate credit.
(2) a grade of “B” or better was earned.
(3) an official transcript from an institutionally accredited university must be filed with the Registrar’s Office.
Some courses may have age limitations based on content and are not transferable. If transfer credit is granted, the grades earned in those courses will not be counted in the MSOE grade point average. Transfer credit will only be granted if the course(s) meet a specific program requirement.
*MSOE will only consider course work from institutionally accredited institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education for transfer evaluation. For course work completed outside of the United States, only transfer credit from institutions accredited by the Ministry of Education of that state/country or its equivalent, will be considered for transfer evaluation. Institutional accreditation and/or accreditation from the Ministry of Education of the institution does not ensure the course work will transfer to MSOE
Individuals should request that their program director review their transcripts to evaluate whether any courses are transferable. When possible, the applicant should provide catalog course descriptions and course syllabi to the program director.
Registration and Course-related Policies
Academic Advising
Each graduate student at MSOE has a designated academic advisor. Most graduate programs require new students to meet with the academic advisor prior to registering for the first course to ensure that new students understand the curriculum and future scheduling procedures. The advisor also provides students with a program of study. Students are encouraged to call the program director/academic advisor whenever they have questions about the program. In subsequent terms, students whose cumulative grade point average falls below a specified minimum (normally 3.00) will be required to consult with the program director prior to registration.
Undergraduate students enrolled in early entry to graduate programs and certificates will be assigned a graduate advisor from that program at a point determined by the graduate program.
The program director, designated academic advisors, academic chairpersons, and the registrar work together to ensure that students in a particular degree program make satisfactory progress without violating prerequisites. It is recommended that students meet with their advisor during each spring semester to review their program of study.
Prerequisite and Corequisite Courses
Prerequisites are courses that must be successfully completed prior to another course to ensure adequate preparation for the next course. A corequisite is a course that must be completed at the same time or prior to another specified course. Prerequisite and corequisite courses are listed in the
Course Descriptions
section of the academic catalog.
Students are responsible for ensuring that they have successfully completed all prerequisites before taking a course. If any prerequisites have not been successfully completed by the start of the course, the student is required to drop the course. Students who do not comply are subject to removal from the course. Full-time status may be affected by dropping or removal from a course.
Students who do not meet the corequisite requirements are required to drop the course. Students who do not comply are subject to removal from the course. Full-time status may be affected by dropping or removal from a course.
The student will be allowed to continue in the course only if a prerequisite or corequisite waiver is approved by the chair of the appropriate academic department or school.
In rare cases, some pairs of courses are required to be taken concurrently. In these cases, the academic unit that oversees the course determines progression policies for corequisites that are dropped or unsatisfactorily completed.
Registration Deadline–Adding Classes/Changing Sections
The deadline to register for classes is Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 pm. Students may neither add a course nor change sections after 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week. Classes dropped after the Registration Deadline will appear on the student’s transcript with a grade of W (withdrawal).
The registration deadline is also the deadline for students who want to change from credit to audit status or from audit to credit status.
Dropping Individual Classes
Prior to Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 p.m., a student may drop a course from their schedule with no record of the drop on their transcripts. Classes dropped after week one and before the drop deadline will be recorded on the student transcript as a grade of W (Withdraw). Students are responsible for their academic schedule and understanding the financial and academic consequences of dropping classes.
Individual Term Deadlines: The deadlines for students to drop individual classes from their schedule are:
Semester Classes: Monday of week 11 at 4:30 p.m.
Summer Subterms 1 and 2: Monday of week 6 at 4:30 p.m.
Full Summer Subterm: Monday of week 12 at 4:30 p.m.
Fall-Spring Subterms: Monday of week 7 at 4:30 p.m.
Auditing a Course
An audit is intended to provide students with an opportunity to review subject matter they have previously studied or to participate in courses to obtain information of interest to them. Since an audit does not carry any credits, auditing of noncredit courses such as seminars and short courses is not permitted.
Students must have successfully completed the proper prerequisites for the course.
Students may not enroll for subsequent courses for credit based upon audited prerequisite subjects.
Students may not use audited courses to satisfy any degree requirements.
Students may not audit non-credit courses.
Registration priority for courses is given to credit-seeking students, so availability is not guaranteed.
Permission to audit a course must be granted through the department chair over the course.
Students must register for an audit by the registration deadline, and it will appear on the transcript.
Students cannot change from audit to credit, or credit to audit, after the registration deadline.
The cost to audit a course is three-fourths the regular tuition of the course for students registering for 0 - 11 credits.  If a student’s total credits including the credits for the audited course are between 12-19, there is no additional charge. If the student is enrolled in more than 19 credits and a portion of those credits are taken as audit, the student should contact the Student Accounts Office to determine additional tuition charges.
At the completion of the audit, no letter grade is issued, and no graduate credit is awarded. The tuition rate for audit of graduate level course work is specified in the
Student Financial Services
section of this catalog.
Independent Study Courses
An independent study gives a student the opportunity to pursue a specialized topic not covered in regularly scheduled course work. An independent study course is not intended to replicate an existing course.
The student works closely with a qualified faculty member who agrees to supervise the project. The student must work with the faculty member to develop a plan for the independent study topic and request permission from the chair. The chair will determine whether there are enough resources available to allow the independent study. The student must complete the appropriate Independent Study Form, available from the program director, and present it at the time of registration for the course.
The role of the faculty member is to guide the student in independent learning. The faculty is expected to meet with the student one hour a week for undergraduate students or two hours a week for graduate students.
Directed Study Courses
Directed study provides the opportunity to receive one-on-one course instruction for an existing course with an MSOE faculty member.
Generally, permission for such registration is granted only if a student is unable to schedule a specific course that is required for graduation and the student is within 16 credits of graduation. Some courses, due to their nature, are not eligible for directed study.
The department chair will determine whether running the course as a directed study is justified and, if so, whether there are enough resources available to offer the directed study. Academic departments may have additional policies that govern approval or denial of directed study courses in their department. Directed study classes must be scheduled in alignment with the starts and stops of terms as published in the academic catalog.
Directed study classes may be dropped in accordance with the published drop deadline for the term.
Directed study classes have a minimum requirement of at least two-thirds of the normal contact hours.
Completed forms must be submitted by the registration deadline, and coursework must be complete when the term ends.
The applicable fee is published on the
Student Financial Services
page of the Academic Catalog. The fee is non-refundable.
Forms can be obtained from the Registrar’s Office website. Students submit the form to the chairperson of the academic department or school that administers the course. If permission is granted, the chair will provide name(s) of approved instructors for the course. Then the student must contact the instructor to set up the schedule for the course. After the instructor has signed the form, the student must pay the directed study fee in the Student Accounts Office before the directed study begins. Once the fee is paid and Student Accounts has signed the form, the student must submit the form to the Registrar’s Office prior to the registration deadline. The Registrar’s Office will register the student for the course and notify the faculty member that the course can begin.
Courses taken by Undergraduate and Graduate Students
This policy applies to graduate and undergraduate students taking courses that can be taken for either graduate or undergraduate credit, as well as for graduate students seeking graduate credit for an undergraduate course. Undergraduate students may not take 6000- or 7000-level courses unless they are accepted for early entry into a master’s program and have permission from the program director or department chair.
Cross-listed 4000/5000-level Courses
Program directors determine which courses at the 5000 level are open to undergraduates seeking elective credit. The course must be cross-listed at the 4000 level for any students seeking undergraduate credit.
Students taking the course for undergraduate credit, including graduate students fulfilling prerequisite requirements, register under the 4000-level designation.
Any students taking the course for graduate credit, including undergraduate students enrolled for early entry to a master’s program, register under the 5000-level designation. The 5000-level courses must state whether they are open to qualified undergraduates in the list of prerequisites in the catalog and the schedule of classes.
Crosslisted courses may have different credit totals as long as both courses meet MSOE’s credit hour policy.
An undergraduate student must have achieved senior standing and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 before taking any graduate course.
Undergraduate students enrolled for early entry into a master’s program will have met these qualifications.
Undergraduate students not accepted for early entry into a master’s program must receive permission from the graduate program director to ensure the student has met these qualifications.
Undergraduate students taking graduate courses beyond undergraduate degree requirements must consult with Financial Aid to understand financial obligations associated with taking undergraduate and graduate courses.
An undergraduate student may not take more than 16 graduate credits. These credits are subject to evaluation upon admission to an MSOE graduate program but will not count toward the transfer credit limit of that program.
Students enrolled in the 5xxx section will have different expectations and grading from students enrolled in the 4xxx section.
Expectations for students taking the course for graduate credit should exceed those taking it for undergraduate credit. For example, graduate credit may require an extra project, greater expectations on a project that all students complete, or some other differentiation that elevates the course to graduate level.
This differentiation must be clearly documented on the course syllabus.
Students will be graded using the appropriate grading scale for the level for which they are registered (undergraduate/graduate).
Undergraduate Courses for Graduate Credit
A graduate student with a free elective in their graduate program may wish to enroll in an undergraduate course that contains subject matter of particular interest to the student and to receive graduate credit for so doing.
In the semester preceding the one in which the undergraduate class is offered, the graduate student shall contact the instructor of the undergraduate course in question and will explain their desire to obtain graduate credit for the course and ask the instructor if they are willing to assign and grade additional work to elevate the course to graduate-level expectations, as noted above.
If the instructor and the academic chair of the department or school offering the course agree, then the department chair will run a special topics course with an XXX 5980 designation, and the student will register for that and attend the course with the undergraduates at their designated meeting times.
Outside Transfer
Students wishing to transfer in course work from another institution for graduate credit may only do so if the course work carries a U/G or G designation, as stated in that institution’s official catalog.
Withdrawal and Readmission Policies
Leave of Absence, Withdrawal, and University Departure
Students considering taking a leave of absence, withdrawing from all classes or requesting a university departure, if they have not already, are encouraged to discuss their specific circumstances with the
Raider Center for Academic Success
, their faculty advisor, or other campus support staff. For students who, after reflection on their personal, financial and academic considerations, determine taking a leave of absence, withdrawing from all courses, or requesting a university departure is in their best interest, an official form must be submitted. This form can be found on the Registrar’s Office website or can be picked up from the Registrar’s Office.
Leave of Absence
A leave of absence is a planned interruption of attendance for one or more terms, but less than two years, before continuing with courses. The official form must be submitted to request a leave of absence. Students may submit their request at any time for the subsequent term or can request a leave of absence in conjunction with a withdrawal of all classes. If there is a need to take some time off due to a medical or mental health concern, a medical leave of absence can be provided. The Dean of Students Office will assist with coordination of medical leave along with re-entry to the university.
The deadline to submit a request for a leave of absence is 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week of the term in which the student wishes to take a leave of absence.
Students who are absent for one or more terms without officially taking a leave of absence may need to reapply and be reconsidered for admission to the university.
Withdrawal from All Classes
Withdrawal from all classes is a removal from all current term classes after the Friday of week one with the intent to re-enroll for the subsequent term. The official form must be submitted to formally withdraw from all classes. A formal withdrawal from all classes will result in final grades of W being reported for all registered classes. Mere absence from classes is not an indication of a formal withdraw. If there is a need to withdraw from all current courses due to a medical or mental health concern, a medical withdrawal can be provided. The Dean of Students Office will assist with coordination of the medical withdrawal along with registration for the subsequent term.
The deadline to withdraw from all current classes is
4:30 p.m. Monday of the 15th week of classes
.
All subterm classes must be dropped individually (all summer, graduate fall, and graduate spring subterms).
University Departure
University departure is a separation from the University, either during the current term or in between terms without intent of re-enrollment. The official form must be submitted to formally request a university departure and ensure a successful transition from enrollment at MSOE. The official university departure request can be submitted at any time, either in conjunction with a withdrawal from all classes or independently for the subsequent term. Submission of an official university departure request does not prevent a student from re-enrolling at MSOE at a later date.
Additional Circumstances
If a student is receiving financial aid, it is strongly recommended that they contact the Financial Aid Office prior to withdrawing so that they can explain any financial consequences associated with the withdrawal. For more information about the tuition effects of withdrawal refer to the
Student Financial Services
page.
International students, student-athletes and students who receive military education benefits, may have additional considerations when withdrawing. Students are advised to discuss their specific situation with the International Affairs staff, Athletics Department and/or the VA Certifying Official for more information prior to submitting an official form for taking a leave of absence or withdrawing from classes.
Military Call to Active Duty or Training
MSOE is committed to supporting students who have been called to active duty and/or training by any branch of the United States Armed Forces prior to or during periods of enrollment. The university will work with students on the best course of action, taking into consideration the time of the term, length of activation and the student’s specific needs. Students who are called to active duty should contact the Dean of Students Office for support and the VA Certifying Official if they are receiving military benefits.
Repeated Withdrawals
A student who withdraws from all current classes for any two consecutive terms will have a hold placed on their account.  The student will need to submit a written explanation of the circumstances that led to the withdrawals and may need to meet with an ad hoc committee to discuss their readiness to return to classes.  The committee will determine whether the student is allowed to register or must take additional time off.
Refunds
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal,
NOT
on the date of last class attendance. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Should a student fail to meet the withdrawal deadline, they will be responsible for tuition for all scheduled classes. Please see the refund schedule for information on how refunds will be administered.
Readmission of Service Members
The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 requires that students who left MSOE to serve in the uniformed services be re-admitted into the same program with the same standing they had when they left. Service in the uniformed services, according to Stat. 3291 of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, means “service (whether voluntary or involuntary) on active duty in the Armed Forces, including such service by a member of the National Guard or Reserve, for a period of more than 30 days under a call or order to active duty of more than 30 days.” MSOE allows for special re-admission of these students, with the following provisions:
Student’s lapse in attendance was due to active duty in the uniformed services, including the National Guard or Reserve, for more than 30 days.
The student must submit documentation that their absence was due to participation in the uniformed services. (Examples of such documentation include a copy of the student’s orders, a DD214, or a signed and dated statement from the student’s commanding officer.)
The cumulative length of all absences from MSOE for participation in the uniformed services does not exceed five years.
The student will be admitted to the same academic program, with the same academic standing, that they were in at the time the absence began.  If the exact program is no longer offered, the student will be placed into a program that is most similar to that program, unless the student requests or agrees to admission to a different program.
The student’s ability to be readmitted under the terms of the HEOA terminates upon any of the following events:
a. Being separated from the armed forces with a dishonorable discharge.
b. Being dismissed as permitted under section 1161(a) of title 10, United States Code.
c. Being dropped from the rolls pursuant to section 1161(b) of title 10, United States Code.
Students who are expected to leave for active duty service should contact the Registrar’s Office as well as the School Certifying Official to ensure all required items are taken care of prior to deployment (laptop hand-in, document submission, etc.). To start the readmission process, service members must complete an admissions application and contact MSOE’s Admissions Office as well as
MSOE’s Veterans Certifying Official
.
Grading Policies
Graduate Grading System
MSOE uses the following grading system for graduate-level courses:
Letter Grade
Numerical Equivalent
Interpretation
A
4.00
Excellent
AB
3.50
Above Expectations
B
3.00
Meets Expectations
BC
2.50
Below Expectations
C
2.00
Minimally Acceptable for Graduate Credit
F
0
Failure
W
0
Withdrawal
P
LP
NP
0
0
0
Pass
Low Pass
No Pass
NR
0
No Grade Reported
PIP
0
Project in Progress
S
0
Satisfactory
U
0
Unsatisfactory
Letter grades of A-F that are received for graduate courses completed at MSOE are included in the calculation of the average. To receive the degree, the student must attain a 3.00 cumulative GPA.
A student who enrolls in a section of a capstone, thesis, or project but does not complete the requirement before the end of the term shall receive a grade of Project in Progress, or PIP. Once the student completes the requirements, the faculty member who assigned the PIP (typically the program director with input from the student’s project advisor) shall send a change-of-grade form to the registrar, who then assigns the final grade. If the PIP grade is not resolved within one calendar year from being first recorded, the PIP grade will change to an unsatisfactory or failing grade for the course (U or F based on the course grading scale). Conversion to the U or F grade can be delayed by the academic chairperson, if the program director and/or project advisor verifies the student is making suitable progress on the project.
In the event of a significant disruption of academic activities, as declared by the vice president of academics, a temporary, alternative pass/no pass grading scale may be employed. The use of the alternative grading scale must be authorized by the Council for Academic Planning and communicated by the vice president of academics. When in effect, the alternative grading scale must be consistently applied university wide.
“Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a B grade or higher, as B is defined in the standard graduate grading scale
“Low Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a BC or C grade, as they are defined in the standard graduate grading scale
“No Pass” is defined as the equivalent of an F grade, as F is defined in the standard graduate grading scale
Grade Changes
Grade changes must be processed by the end of the subsequent semester.
Fall and fall subterm grade changes must be processed by the end of the following spring semester.
Spring, spring subterm, full summer term, and summer subterm grade changes must be process by the end of the following fall semester.
If an extenuating circumstance exists, the student may appeal the one-semester deadline to the chairperson of the department or school that offers the course.
An exception is granted for graduate capstone project courses in which a grade of Project in Progress (PIP) is recorded.  If the PIP grade is not changed within one calendar year from being first recorded, the PIP grade will resolve to a grade of Unsatisfactory (U).  The program director can prevent the conversion to the U grade if the project advisor verifies that the student is still making suitable progress on the project.
No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred. After a student’s degree is conferred, the transcript is considered a finalized historical document and cannot be changed.
Incomplete Grades
Incomplete grades are reserved for situations in which a student has done satisfactory work in a course until near the end of the term but because of extenuating circumstances, the course could not be completed. An incomplete grade is given at the discretion of the instructor. It is the responsibility of the student to make arrangements with the instructor to have the work completed; these arrangements must be initiated within the first two weeks of the following semester (not including the summer terms).
For incomplete grades issued in fall semester and fall subterms, the students must contact the instructor within the first two weeks of the following spring semester.
For incomplete grades issued in spring semester, spring subterms, full summer term, and summer subterms, students must contact the instructor within the first two weeks of the following fall semester.
A letter grade followed by an asterisk is a temporary grade indicating incomplete work. The letter preceding the asterisk represents the grade the student will earn if no additional work is completed. The letter grade can go up if additional work is completed, but it cannot go down. The letter grade preceding the asterisk is calculated into the student’s GPA.
The student must submit the required work to complete the course within the time deadline set by the instructor, but this may not be later than the end of the same semester. If the student has not completed all work for the course after this period of time, the asterisk will be dropped and the letter grade preceding the asterisk will become the permanent grade.
No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred.
Grade Appeals
Students may appeal a final grade they believe was given in error or based on unreasonable departure from previously articulated standards. The student should first contact the instructor assigning the grade and explain why they believe the grade to be in error. If the appeal to the instructor does not lead to resolution, the student may formally appeal the grade in writing to the office of the vice president of academics (VPA). The VPA will convene a meeting of at least 3 additional faculty members to review, discuss, and make a recommendation to the VPA. The committee will consider the student and the faculty arguments and may elect to speak with either or both. The VPA has final authority over the appeal decision.
Any grade change appeal must be in process by the official end of the term following the term in which the grade was earned; if the course is a prerequisite to a next term course and the initial grade submitted was a failing grade, the process must be completed by Friday of the first week of the term.
Grade Replacement
Graduate students are not allowed to repeat a graduate-level course for which a grade has been earned unless given written permission by the program director and department chair. When granted permission, graduate students may repeat for grade replacement any graduate-level course for which a letter grade below a B was earned. The grade and credits earned from the second attempt will be used to calculate the student’s GPA. The grade for the first attempt will still appear on the transcript but will be preceded with a “#” indicating that the grade and credits from the first attempt will not be used to calculate the student’s GPA.  Once a degree is conferred, no additional grade replacements will be processed.
Academic Progress Requirements
MSOE expects all students to complete their academic objectives as outlined under the Academic Standing and the Time Limits sections that follow. In addition, students are expected to follow the prescribed sequence of courses for the degree program selected, observing all course prerequisites and corequisites.
Academic Standing
A graduate student at MSOE is in good academic standing unless the graduate student’s cumulative GPA is less than 3.00 or the student receives a grade of F in any class during the previous academic term.
A graduate student not in good academic standing is subject to academic probation, suspension, or termination terms of which are established by the students’ graduate program and administered by its program director.
At a minimum, a graduate student not in good academic standing is placed on academic probation. A student on academic probation, who does not meet the criteria for returning to good academic standing may be subject to suspension.
In cases of academic suspension or termination, a student may appeal to the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee. The subcommittee may recommend academic probation, continued suspension or permanent dismissal from MSOE. Typically, academic suspension is for a period of two academic terms. In order to resume graduate study, a suspended student must petition the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee for lifting of the suspension.
Fall and spring subterm standing will be calculated at the end of the fall and spring semester. Academic standing is not calculated after summer terms, unless the graduate program requires full-time student status in the summer term.
Continuous Registration
In specific programs, graduate students are required to be continuously registered until graduation after initiation of the master’s project, thesis or other capstone activity. Students who initiated the master’s project, thesis, or other capstone activity. Students must pay the continuation fee and register for
GRA 6998
, which will appear on the student’s transcript as a no-credit course with no effect on the student’s GPA.
Time Limits
Graduate students, except those in the MS in Perfusion program (MSP), have a maximum of seven years from their initial enrollment in a graduate course to complete all degree requirements.
Students in the MSP program are expected to complete the program’s requirements at the end of five consecutive semesters inclusive of the summer semester at the end of year one. The MSP program has a maximum of two calendar years to complete all degree requirements.
Any student failing to complete all degree requirements within the prescribed deadlines should consult with their program director and request a time extension. Students with a valid reason for being unable to meet deadlines established by MSOE for completion of the graduate degree programs may appeal in writing to the program director for an extension of time of up to one year. The decision of the program director may be appealed to the Graduate Programs Council. An appeal for an extension of more than one year must be approved by the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee. The written appeal for an extension must explain why the deadline was not or will not be met and propose substitute deadlines. The appeal should be submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee grants a time extension, the subcommittee will outline academic requirements the student must meet prior to graduation. These may include additional course requirements, reflecting changes in the degree program or updated content.
Changing Graduate Programs
A current student wishing to change from one graduate program to another must complete a
Graduate Change of Program Request
form and consult with the director of the program to which the student is applying. The program director will determine if entrance requirements of the new program are met, and if any additional admissions materials are required. At the time the student is accepted into the new program, the student’s previously completed course work will be evaluated to determine which courses will qualify to meet requirements of the new program. Students may appeal to the Graduate Programs Council (GPC) Advancement Committee to have grades from the previous MSOE graduate program removed from GPA calculations. Students may not petition to remove courses that meet requirements in the new program.
Graduation Requirements and Commencement Procedures
The requirements necessary to earn a graduate degree at MSOE:
Satisfactory completion of all courses listed in the student’s program of study within the maximum time period allowed (unless a time extension has been officially granted).
A cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or higher in graduate course work counted toward the degree.
Departments may have additional graduation requirements for specific programs.
Degrees are conferred at the end of fall and spring semesters and the full summer subterm. Graduate degrees only are additionally conferred at the end of fall and spring subterms. The official graduation date and conferral date are the same and will occur at the end of the semester or subterm in which all graduation requirements have been met.
Formal commencement ceremonies are conducted only at the end of fall and spring semesters. Students must be scheduled to complete all graduation requirements in the term in which they attend commencement. An exception will be made for students intending to complete no more than two courses during the summer months; these students may participate in the spring commencement. Program directors will verify that students qualify to attend commencement.
Each student
must apply
for graduation by completing a Graduation Application Form and submitting it to the Registrar’s Office. Graduation applications are available from the Registrar’s Office or on the Registrar’s Office website. Students must apply for graduation in the Registrar’s Office by the dates posted on the
Registrar’s Office
website.
For those who submit a Graduation Application Form by the deadline, the Registrar’s Office, in conjunction with the program director, will do preliminary graduation checks before the end of the first week of the semester in which the students plan to graduate, and notify them if additional courses are required.
A student completing graduation requirements by the end of a semester, but who has not submitted a Graduation Application Form by the deadline may be allowed to participate in the Commencement exercises with approval of the Academics Office and the Registrar’s Office.
Commencement Accessories
Qualified students may wear approved cords, pins, and stoles at University commencement ceremonies to indicate academic achievement or membership in approved academic societies, campus groups, and identity groups. Descriptions of the honors are noted in the graduation program. Students may wear more than one accessory.
The university maintains a list of groups authorized to wear accessories at commencement. The sponsoring groups are responsible for the design, cost, procurement, and distribution of accessories. Student groups not on the approved list may submit a request for approval.
Students may appropriately decorate their mortar boards. Students will be asked to remove anything that is deemed offensive or inappropriate. If they refuse, students may not participate in the commencement ceremony. Students must request permission from the commencement coordinator to wear personal decorations beyond their mortar boards.
New groups wishing to have their accessory approved must submit the
Commencement Accessory Request form
for review by the Executive Educational Council (EEC). In the form, groups will need to explain the design, purpose, and significance of the accessory and how it will be procured.The form must be submitted to the commencement coordinator by April 1 for May commencement and by November 1 for December commencement. Approval may take up to three weeks.
Awarding of a Second Master’s Degree
MSEM as a Second Master’s Degree
A student who has earned any master’s degree within the last 7 years at MSOE will be awarded 9 credits towards the pursuit of a Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM). The Graduate Program Director will determine what courses (credits and grades) transfer to the second degree. Students will be required to complete the capstone for the new degree.
MBA as a Second Master’s Degree
A student who has any master’s degree from MSOE within the last 7 years will be awarded 12 credits towards the pursuit of the MBA. The Graduate Program Director will determine what courses (credits and grades) transfer to the second degree. Students will be required to complete the capstone for the new degree.
Certificates
A certificate recognizes that students have completed a defined, cohesive set of courses with a specific academic focus. A student wishing to complete a certificate does so by satisfactorily completing all requirements stipulated for each certificate.
Prospective students not enrolled at MSOE apply through the Admissions Department. Students must meet admission criteria and be accepted to the university to earn a certificate.
Graduate certificate students must meet university graduate admissions standards. Qualified undergraduate students with senior standing may start taking graduate certificate courses early; however, they cannot declare or earn the certificate until the bachelor’s degree is earned.
In addition to graduate admissions standards, post-master’s certificate students must have already earned a master’s degree in a specified discipline from an accredited university.
Current MSOE students must declare their pursuit of a certificate as well as their intention to complete with the Registrar’s Office.
Financial aid is available for certificates under certain circumstances. Students must consult with the Financial Aid Office for financial aid eligibility.
A course may be double counted, but not triple counted, toward more than one degree, minor, or certificate.
Certificates may not be paired with a closely related minor or specialization, as determined by the department offering the certificate.
At least sixty percent of the credits (or a minimum of two courses for certificates consisting of four courses) required for the certificate must be completed in residence. Individual certificate programs may require a higher percentage of credits to be taken in residence. Any courses transferred in must adhere to MSOE’s Transfer Credit policy.
Students are responsible for any prerequisite requirements for the certificate.
There is no limit on the number of certificates a student may earn.
Timeframes:
For students that are not concurrently earning a degree, there is a maximum of seven years from initial enrollment in a certificate course to complete all certificate requirements.
If the certificate is earned concurrently with enrollment in a degree program, the time limit shall be the same as the degree program.
Some certificate programs may set shorter time limits because of the timeliness of the subject matter.
Efforts will be made to run sufficient courses for a certificate over a four-year period. There is no guarantee that courses for a certificate will be conveniently scheduled.
Certificates do not signify certification, which indicates a third-party examination or endorsement, unless specifically stated.
Students who do not maintain continuous enrollment are subject to readmission policies.
A minimum grade point average of 3.00 in the certificate course work is required to earn graduate certificates.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.