Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid  - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Student Accounts Office
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Student Life and Campus Center CC-437
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Fax: (414) 277-4535
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
Tuition and Fees (2012-2013 Academic Year)
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition and fees at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Undergraduate Tuition
Full Time (12 - 19 credit hours)
$10,640 per quarter
Students registering for more than 19 credits will be charged $554 per credit for each credit more than 19 credits.
Part Time (1 - 11 quarter credit hours)
$ 554/credit hour
Technology Package (Laptop)
$1,140 annually
To be billed at $380/quarter
Health and Facilities Fee
$150 per quarter
The Health and Facilities Fee only pertains to first-time undergraduates in the incoming Fall 2012 class.
Undergraduate Application Fee
$ 25
This fee is payable with the admission application and is
nonrefundable
. The application fee is required for all students requesting acceptance in credit courses.
Late Registration Fee
$ 45
This fee is payable for all students who register during the first week of a term and is
nonrefundable
.
Returned Check Fee
$ 30
Checks  received in payment of tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE  Bookstore, which are returned by the bank as “Non Sufficient Funds,”  “Payment Stopped” or “Account Closed” will result in a charge of an  additional $30 NSF check handling fee. If two checks are returned from  the bank, the student will lose their check writing privileges in the  Bookstore and their student account will be annotated to require all  future payments to be in cash, cashier’s check, money order or credit  card.
Residence Hall Fees (per quarter)
Main Halls
Double
$1,708
Single
$2,387
Regents Hall
Double
$1,915
Single
$2,440
Meal Plan Fees (per quarter)
Extended
$1,060
Standard
$968
Minimum
$870
Advanced Credit Examination Fee
$ 60
Audit Fee
3/4 of regular tuition
Continuation Fee (GC-899)
$100
Directed Study Fees
(Directed study fees must be paid in full at time of registration. This fee is
nonrefundable
even if directed study is not completed.)
Per Credit Undergraduate Fee
$ 885
Graduation Fee
$ 50
Due Dates
Charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes. Students who have settled in full all obligations to MSOE will be issued earned certificates, diplomas and transcripts, and will be permitted to register for the subsequent term. A student must have a zero balance to register for the next quarter.
If payment is not received by Monday of the third week, a late payment fee may accrue at a rate of 12 percent A.P.R. (one percent per month) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a late payment fee on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file in the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a late payment fee on those charges covered by a company or agency.
If a student does not make payments when due, MSOE reserves the right to require full payment of the subsequent quarter before the student may register for that quarter.
Agency or Employer Sponsorship of Students
To allow flexibility for students sponsored by a company or agency, the following is possible: If the company/agency will allow MSOE to invoice them for the student’s education with no contingencies, a letter of authorization from the company or agency must be on file in the Student Accounts Office or must accompany the registration form. The letter of authorization must state exactly what expenses will be covered; i.e., which classes, costs, fees, books, etc. MSOE must have the letter at the time of the student’s registration each quarter.
H.E.L.P. Payment Plan
MSOE’s new in-house payment plan, H.E.L.P. (Helping Everyone to Learn and Pay), offers students monthly payment plans for amounts due. Students determine how much of their balance they wish to divide into monthly payments. Any amount not covered by H.E.L.P. will be due when billed. For further information, contact the H.E.L.P. administrator/senior collection specialist at (414) 277-2231.
Financial Aid Disbursement
All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
If you have more financial aid disburse to your account than charges on your account you will have a credit balance. Credit balance refund checks will be processed after all financial aid has been disbursed to your account and will be mailed to your local address. Parent PLUS loan borrowers may authorize MSOE to issue a check for the remainder of any excess PLUS load funds to either themselves or to their student. This request must be submitted in writing to the Student Accounts Office. Please allow 10 days for credit balance refund checks to be processed.
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Bookstore, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly invoice. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the bookstore when purchasing their textbooks. You are able to charge your books to your student account during the two weeks before the term begins through the first Friday of the term (Please note that you must wait at least 24 hours after you have registered before you can charge your books this way). Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Student Invoices
All registered students are mailed a paper invoice before the term begins. If you register after the first batch of invoices has been mailed, you will receive a paper invoice in the mail during week three of the term. These invoices are mailed to the legal/home/permanent address you have on record with the Registrar’s Office. If you wish to have it mailed to a different address, you must contact us at
payments@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7130.
Please remember that you can always view your statement online at my.msoe.edu and you are responsible for all charges regardless of whether or not you receive a paper invoice in the mail.
Outside Resources Reporting Requirements
If you receive financial aid or financial support from other agencies, you are required by federal regulations to report the amount of support you receive from those agencies to the Financial Aid Office. Examples of such resources include monies received from the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), the Trade Adjustment Act (TAA), private scholarships and employer tuition reimbursement.
Dual-degree Program Charges
Dual-degree programs offer the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in a dual-degree program should complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as an undergraduate student. Students are encouraged not to graduate with a bachelor’s degree after their fourth year because they are eligible to receive undergraduate financial aid for their fifth year.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into the Master of Science in Environmental Engineering, Freshman-to-Master’s in Civil Engineering or Master of Science in Structural Engineering dual-degree programs are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid, even though they may be taking graduate courses. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the graduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Students enrolled less than full-time (less than 12 credits) in an approved dual-degree program will be charged the standard per-credit charge based on the type and number of credits for which they enroll.
Graduate Tuition Grant
With the new graduate tuition grant, you can get a master’s degree and put yourself ahead of the competition at no cost.
To be eligible for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant, you must meet the below requirements:
Have an undergraduate degree from MSOE
Have a cumulative undergraduate MSOE GPA of 3.25 or better
Have a cumulative major undergraduate MSOE GPA of 3.25 or better
Be admitted into an approved MSOE graduate program
Start the graduate program within one calendar year of graduation from MSOE with an MSOE bachelor’s degree, and
Apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant before starting your graduate studies
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant will cover 100 percent of tuition for  9-15 graduate credit hours per term (up to 51 credits total) for the  following programs:
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (graduate degree classes only)
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
Master of Science in Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering Management
Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management
Master of Science in New Product Management
Master of Science in Structural Engineering (graduate degree classes only)
Continuation of the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant depends on the  satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated  at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Tuition Grant include that the student must:
Be a full-time graduate student enrolled in 9 to 15 (program specific) graduate credit hours each quarter, and
Maintain a 3.50 or better cumulative GPA each quarter, and
Be continuously enrolled as a full-time graduate student each quarter, with the exception of the summer term(s).
Further conditions may apply. Visit
www.msoe.edu/gtg
for more information.
Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees will cover 100 percent of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc., for 12-18 (program specific) credit hours per term up to 51 total credits. The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees applies to the following dual-degree programs only:
Freshman-to-Master’s Degree in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering and Master of Science in Structural Engineering
Bachelor of Science (engineering) and Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Eligibility Requirements for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
Must apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees, and
Must be fully admitted into an approved B.S.-M.S. Dual Degree program, and
Must have less than 51 credits (combined undergraduate and graduate credits) total to complete the B.S. and M.S. degrees, and
Must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative major undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.50 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have completed and submitted application for federal financial aid (FAFSA).
Continuation of the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
The student must be a full-time student enrolled in 12 to 18 (program specific) credit hours each quarter, and
The student must maintain a 3.25 or better cumulative undergraduate and cumulative major undergraduate GPA and a 3.50 or better cumulative graduate GPA each quarter, and
The student must be continuously enrolled as a full-time student each quarter with the exception of the summer.
Fees:
Charge per credit for Capstone courses (program specific): $100
Students will be charged standard fees for programs such as the Technology Package.
Restrictions:
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees may be used to obtain one MSOE graduate degree only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees will only cover up to 100% of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc. Students with gift aid that exceeds tuition are not eligible.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees may be used to pay for up to 51 credits only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S-M.S. Dual Degrees will be granted only for three consecutive quarters (not including Summer Quarter). Further conditions may apply. Visit
www.msoe.edu/gtg
for more information. For more information:
If you are not yet a student at MSOE, contact an admission counselor directly at (800) 332-6763.
If you are a current student in a dual-degree program, contact your program director.
If you are a current student or an MSOE alumnus, contact Continuing Studies and Outreach at (800) 321-6763.
Refund Policy
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Financial Aid Recipients
A financial aid recipient is defined as any student who has been awarded financial aid (federal, state or institutional) by the Financial Aid Office.
No tuition refund will be made for financial aid recipients who drop individual courses after 4 p.m. Friday of the first week of the quarter.
Students are charged a per-credit fee for each credit above 19 credits. If a student is registered for more than 19 credits and then drops a class, the refund on those overload credits will be based on the MSOE Tuition Refund Schedule.
Tuition refunds will only be granted to financial aid recipients who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition Refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition Refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition Refund
After the fourth week of quarter
NO REFUND
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
If a recipient of Title IV aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required by law to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically-related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.
The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to   determine the last date a student completed an academically-related   activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial   Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the quarter as the   withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of  any  adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed  the  quarter.
The amount of federal aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Any funds not earned will be returned in the following order:
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
Federal Subsidized Direct Loan
Federal Perkins Loan
Federal Direct PLUS Loan
Federal Pell Grant
Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant
Other Title IV Aid
If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the quarter, the student may owe a repayment to the university. A bill will be sent to the student for any balance due as a result of returning financial aid funds.
Please contact the Financial Aid Office before withdrawing to determine what aid will be returned and what you may owe MSOE.
Return of State Funds Policy
If a recipient of state aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required to calculate whether a portion of the student’s state financial aid must be returned to the state.
The amount of state aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of state aid earned is determined by the refund policy for each state grant. Please refer below for the refund policies of each individual state grant.
Talent Incentive Program Grant:
Follows the Return of State Funds Policy stated previously
Wisconsin Tuition Grant:
If a student withdraws from all classes within weeks one to four and has a credit balance after the federal aid calculations are completed, then the state funds (shown above) will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If the student does not have a credit balance after federal aid calculations are completed, then there is no state refund up to a zero balance. If a student withdrawals from all classes after week five, then the state funds (shown above) will not be refunded.
Hearing/Visually Handicapped Program/Indian Student Assistance Grant/Minority Undergraduate Retention Grant/Academic Excellence Grant:
If a student withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter and has a credit balance after federal calculations are completed, then the state funds (shown above) will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If the student does not have a credit balance after federal calculations are completed, then there is no state refund up to a zero balance.
Any aid not earned will be returned to the state.
Return of Institutional Funds Policy
If a recipient of MSOE scholarships, loans or grants officially withdraws before 4:30 p.m. Friday of week four, MSOE will calculate the amount of institutional aid the student earned and return the unearned aid back to the university.
The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Students NOT Receiving Financial Aid
This refund schedule is for 11-week classes. For shorter classes, please contact the Student Accounts Office.
Tuition refunds will be made for students not receiving financial aid who officially withdraw from one or more courses, except for those who retain full-time status, according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition Refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition Refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition Refund
After the fourth week of quarter
NO REFUND
Tuition Variance Committee
The purpose of the Tuition Variance Committee is to allow appeals for those students having extenuating circumstances they believe warrant a tuition or refund exception to the existing policy.
Students must submit their appeal in writing to the Student Accounts Office, addressed to the Tuition Variance Committee. The committee will then discuss the appeal to determine whether any tuition adjustment should be considered. The appeal should include as much detail as possible and also include any documentation that would help verify the facts in the appeal. It should also include a proposed fair financial resolution. For details please refer to the Tuition and Fees section on the Financing Your Education Web page on MSOE’s website.
All appeal letters must be submitted in writing and mailed to:
Attn: Tuition Variance Committee
MSOE, Student Accounts Department
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Typical reasons for which exemptions to policies may be considered, but not guaranteed:
Student who has medical issues (must provide documentation).
Death of an immediate family member.
Extended periods of physical or mental illness of a student’s immediate family member who is dependent upon the student for support and documented by a physician. (If you prefer, medical documentation can be submitted to the director of counseling services.)
Error in academic advising resulting in inappropriate course enrollment-substantiated by advisor and department chairperson.
Military obligations - if you are in the military and are called up to active duty you should contact the registrar directly.
Typical reasons for which exemptions to policies are not considered:
Changes in employment schedule or workload.
Personal errors in judgment involving availability of finances, academic ability or time management.
Dissatisfaction with the course content or delivery of instruction. (These concerns should be directed toward the appropriate department chairperson.)
Issues related to company tuition reimbursement programs. (These matters should be handled with the student’s individual company.)
Residence Hall Room and Meal Refund Policy
Room Fees
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of housing fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. All refunds are determined by the actual move-out date. This is the date that all keys and the room condition report are turned in at the Housing Office. This may be done only during posted business hours. Keys and/or forms may not be turned in to Public Safety personnel.
Before the start of the quarter
100% (less $75 room reservation fee)
During the first week of the quarter
90%
During the second week of the quarter
80%
During the third week of the quarter
70%
During the fourth week of the quarter
60%
During the fifth week of the quarter
50%
After the fifth week:
NO REFUND
In the event of termination of residency due to disciplinary action, students will be held financially responsible for the entire quarterly room fee.
Meal Plan Fees
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of meal plan fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. The meal plan contract period runs from the beginning of Fall Quarter through the end of Spring Quarter.
At the end of the contract period:
NO REFUND
(All meals and points must be used or they will be lost.)
Before the end of the contract period:
Balance under $35
NO REFUND
Balance over $35
Balance minus a $35 administrative fee
Note: Meals carried over each quarter will be refunded at $2.50 per meal.
Calculation of Termination Date
The date of termination used in calculating refunds is the day that all keys, Room Condition Reports, and other items have been turned into the Housing Office. This may only be done between 7:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. during regular business days unless otherwise specified. The week of termination is calculated beginning at 12:01 a.m. Monday and ending at 12 midnight the following Sunday.
Technology Package Refund Policy
Technology package refunds will be made for students who officially withdraw from ALL classes and return their laptop to the Information Technology Department (IT) according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100%
During the first week of the quarter
100%
During the second week of the quarter
80%
During the third week of the quarter
40%
During the fourth week of the quarter
20%
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
Should a laptop not be returned, all efforts will be made by IT to contact the student to arrange for return of the laptop. The Use Agreement that the student signed requires that the student return the equipment to the university within five days prior to the expiration or termination of the Use Agreement. The Use Agreement begins the first day of the first month following the date that this Use Agreement is signed or upon delivery of the equipment, whichever is earlier. The “Use Agreement Period” shall extend from the Use Agreement begin date to the user’s graduation date from MSOE. When the user becomes a non-registered student of MSOE, the Use Agreement is terminated and the laptop must be returned. MSOE will take legal action to retrieve the equipment or its value from the user. Questions regarding the technology package refund policy should be directed to IT.
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for MSOE Financial Aid Recipients
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete a minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) as well as maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Quantitative
In accordance with federal regulations, students must successfully complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. The maximum time frame to complete a degree is within 150 percent of the published length of the degree program. To determine the published length of a degree program, please refer to the program’s track listed in the
Undergraduate Academic Catalog
.
Students will be monitored at the end of the each academic term including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Please note:
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term.
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Attempted credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D), earned F’s, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.
Completed credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D).
MSOE scholarships, grants, and loans are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (18 full-time terms).
Qualitative
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed at the end of each term of attendance including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 2.00 CGPA at the time of review will receive a financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 2.00 CGPA.
If the student reestablishes a 2.00 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 2.00 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Appeals
Students may appeal the suspension of their financial aid eligibility. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office, addressed to the director. The director, in consultation with Financial Aid Office staff members, will review the appeal and notify the student in writing regarding the appeal. Students will be able to file an appeal on the following basis: The death of a relative, injury or illness of the student, or other documented extenuating circumstances. Students must also indicate why the student failed to make satisfactory progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. Students are limited to two suspension appeal requests while attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved will be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must re-establish a 2.00 CGPA and/or complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
MSOE’s Academic Plan will be developed on individual basis which may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, Learning Resource Center and/or MSOE Counseling Services. Failure to meet the requirements of MSOE’s Academic Plan will result in suspension of financial aid the next term of attendance.
MSOE Academic Scholarship Policy
Full-time enrollment must be maintained in order to remain eligible for scholarships. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12 or more credits per quarter and is determined by your enrollment status as of 4:30 p.m. on Friday of week one of each quarter.
Initial scholarship reviews and revisions will be conducted at the end of a student’s second full-time academic year of study.
Students who have achieved a cumulative GPA (CGPA) of 3.01-4.00 at the time of review will receive an increase of $500 to the scholarship for the next academic year. Scholarship increases in subsequent years will be $500 if a student maintains a CGPA of 3.01-4.00 as determined at the end of year review.
Students who have never received a scholarship in the past, but who at the time of review have completed full-time studies in the previous academic year and have achieved a CGPA of 2.50-3.00 will receive an initial scholarship amount of $6,000 for the next academic year. Students who have achieved a CGPA of 3.01-4.00 will receive an initial scholarship of $8,000 for the next academic year. Subsequent adjustments will be addressed as stated above.
The MSOE Academic Scholarship may be extended to a sixth full-time year (up to 18 full-time quarters).
Please note that there is a separate MSOE Presidential Scholarship policy. Recipients of MSOE’s Presidential Scholarship can contact the Financial Aid Office for a copy of this policy.
Repeated Course Work
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term. Repeated courses will be included in the determination of your enrollment status for financial aid purposes. Successfully completed courses that have been repeated more than once will not be considered when determining your enrollment status.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.