Student Financial Services  - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
Student Financial Services
Academic Regulations and Policies
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
The Raider Core
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Departments and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Student Financial Services
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
How to Apply for Aid
Tuition and Fees
Due Dates and Payment
Financial Aid Disbursement
Tuition Refunds
Withdrawal-Return of Financial Aid
Other Refund Policies
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-301
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Email:
payments@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/admissions-aid/tuition-fees
Financial Aid Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-301
Phone: (414) 277-7223
Email:
finaid@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
How to Apply for Aid
It is encouraged that all eligible students file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so they can be considered for the maximum amount of aid available. Students will need to create an FSA ID from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to create an FSA ID, please visit
studentaid.gov.
You will need to use this ID to access your student aid dashboard to apply for the FAFSA and view loan history.
Eligibility
Admitted undergraduate students who are U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens, enrolled at least half-time, maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), and not in default or do not owe a repayment on any federal aid program may be considered for institutional, state, and federal grants and loans. Please review MSOE’s financial aid website for more information about the types of aid offered.
Tuition and Fees (2024-2025 Academic Year)
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition and fees at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Undergraduate Tuition
Full-time (12-19 credit hours):
$24,120 per semester
Students registering for more than 19 credits will be charged $1,264 per credit for each credit more than 19 credits.
Part-time (1-11 semester credit hours):
$1,264/credit hour
Early Entry Master’s Program Tuition Rates
Early entry master’s programs offer the ability for MSOE students to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in this program are considered undergraduate students until their undergraduate degree is conferred. Depending on the program, students may take up to 16 graduate-level credits as an undergraduate student, and those credits may apply to both degrees.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into an early entry program are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid until their undergraduate degree is conferred. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the undergraduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Fees
Technology Package (laptop): $820 per semester
Full-time undergraduate students, registered for 12+ credits, will be charged $820 per semester. The technology fee includes participation in the laptop program, supports information technology, printing services, network usage, distance/digital learning, and other related services.
Part-time undergraduate students, registered for 1-11 credits, will be charged
$17 per credit
to support information technology, printing services, network usage, distance/digital learning and will not receive an MSOE laptop. Part-time students can opt in to the laptop program and are charged
$150 per semester
.
Infrastructure and Facilities Fee: $300 general fee per semester
Full-time undergraduate students, registered for 12+ credits, will be charged $300 per semester. The purpose of the infrastructure fee is to support student services such as health and wellness on campus, Kern Center access, tutoring and support from RCAS, and other student services and activities.
Enrollment Deposit: $175
The enrollment deposit ensures your place in the incoming class. It should not be paid unless you have been formally accepted to MSOE by the Admissions Office. This fee is
nonrefundable
and will be credited to your first-term tuition bill should you choose to attend MSOE.
Residence Hall Fees (per semester)
Margaret Loock and Regents Residence Halls
Double:
$3,726
Single:
$5,590
Hermann Viets Tower
Double:
$4,986
Single:
$7,452
Grohmann Tower Residence Hall floors:
Double:
$4,968
Single:
$7,452
Grohmann Tower Apartments (per semester)
Per bed:
$3,960
Meal Plan Fees (per semester)
Required for housing residents
7-Day unlimited access:
$2,583
Options for students not living in residence halls:
Block Plan 110 meals:
$754
Block Plan 80 meals:
$599
Block Plan 65 meals:
$527
Block Plan 25 meals:
$218
Block Plan 10 meals:
$90
Parking Permits (per semester)
Standard Parking in Viets Field:
$313
Grohmann Tower Student Parking:
$338
Motorcycle Parking Permit:
$100
Weekday Parking Permit:
$5 per day
Evening/Weekend Parking:
Free
(must have permit)
Advanced Credit by Examination or Evaluation Fee:
$65
Audit Fee:
75% of undergraduate tuition rate
Continuation Fee
(GRA 6998): $100
Directed Study Fees
(Directed study fees must be paid in full at time of registration. This fee is
nonrefundable
even if directed study is not completed.)
Per Credit Undergraduate Fee: $2,022
Due Dates and Payment
Semester charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes.
Fall 2024 due date
: September 16, 2024
Spring 2025 due date
: February 3, 2025
Student Statements
All registered students receive an email notification when their statement is available to view online. MSOE publishes preliminary statements prior to the close of registration each term so that students can make payment arrangements prior to the start of the term. Final statements are published to students during week two of each term following the close of registration and financial aid disbursement.
Students and authorized third-party payers can access statements online through the Transact link found in a student’s
my.msoe.edu portal
. For any student billing questions, please contact the Student Accounts Office at (414) 227-7130 or
payments@msoe.edu
.
Payment Options
·
Online through Transact:
Pay with an e-check or a debit/credit card
Link your 529 account and pay (not all 529 plans accepted - see Transact for availability and associated fees)
International Funds Transfer payment through Transact allows students to pay using their home currency (see Transact for availability and associated fees)
·
Payment Plan:
Student or authorized payers can enroll in a monthly payment plan through Transact. All payment types listed above can be used for the payment plan. Refer to
msoe.edu for enrollment deadlines and payment schedules.
·
Cash or Check Payments:
Payment with cash or check ONLY can be done at the Student Accounts office, CC-301 Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. or payment can be left in the drop box outside the office for next business day processing.
If mailing a check, please add the student ID number in the memo part of the check. Checks are payable to MSOE, Attn: Student Accounts Office, 1025 N. Broadway, Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109.
Late Payment Charge
If payment is not received by the statement due date, and a student is not enrolled and current on the monthly payment plan, a finance charge may accrue at a rate of one percent per month (12 percent A.P.R.) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a finance charge on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file with the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a finance charge on those charges covered by a company or agency. Any charges not covered by a student’s sponsor, will be subject to a finance charge.
Financial Hold
MSOE will place a financial hold on accounts that are not paid in full or in good standing on a payment plan. This financial hold will prevent registration for subsequent terms until the balance is paid.
A financial hold will be placed on a student’s account if they have a past due balance for the summer term. This hold will remain on the account until the summer balance is paid in full. Past due summer balances, if not cleared prior to the fall registration deadline, may result in a student’s fall registration being canceled. Students who have their fall registration revoked due to a financial hold are not guaranteed to be able to enroll in their original fall courses.
In the event that a student becomes delinquent on a semester payment plan after they have registered for the subsequent term, their registration for the subsequent term is subject to cancellation by the Registrar’s Office. The student cannot re-register for the subsequent term until the balance is paid in full and the payment is verified by MSOE’s bank. This verification process takes 5 business days. The past due balance must be resolved and the student must be registered prior to the close of registration for the subsequent term.
Returned Payments
Checks or electronic payments received towards tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Raider Shop that are returned by the bank will result in a charge of an additional $30 returned payment fee. Some examples of why a payment would be returned are: “Non-Sufficient Funds,” “Payment Stopped,” “Unable to locate,” or “Account Closed.” If two payments are returned from the bank, the student may be required to use a different method of payment in the future.
If a returned payment causes a past due balance for a previous term, enrollment for the subsequent term is subject to cancellation by the Registrar’s Office until the previous term is paid in full and the payment is verified by MSOE’s bank. This verification process takes 5 business days. The past due balance must be resolved and the student must be registered prior to the close of registration for the subsequent term.
Financial Aid Disbursement
Scholarship, grant, and loan funds are usually divided equally between the terms. Federal loans won’t be applied to your account unless you’ve previously completed entrance counseling and master promissory notes. Students must be enrolled full-time (12+ credits) to receive any MSOE-sponsored aid (scholarships or grants). Students who register part-time (1-11 credits), may request an exception to the full-time enrollment policy for up to two terms during their MSOE careers. If a student is or plans to be registered less than full time for a term, they may request a proration of the MSOE scholarship by contacting the Financial Aid Office. Undergraduate students enrolled for less than six credits are not eligible for federal or state aid and will be notified during the first week of the term. All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Disbursement of Books and Supplies
Title IV recipients must have a way to purchase or obtain books and supplies no later than the seventh day of a payment period if a) The institution could disburse the title IV, HEA program funds for which the student is eligible; and b) Presuming the funds were disbursed, the student would have a credit balance under 34 CFR 668.164(h). MSOE ensures this by allowing all students to charge books and supplies from the MSOE Raider Shop to their student account. Students may purchase books from the MSOE Raider Shop; however, they are not required to do so.
Please note that Federal Work-Study is earned and paid through semi-monthly paychecks and not directly applied to your student account.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
All processed financial aid will transfer to the student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward. A credit balance refund will be processed if the sum of financial aid posted to the student account including
federal Title IV funds (see definition below)
exceeds the sum of
allowable charges (see definition below)
. MSOE will refund any excess funds within 14 days after the disbursement is posted to the student account. Students should elect to have refunds directly deposited into a checking or savings account to receive their refunds faster. If they are not enrolled in direct deposit, a check will be mailed to the current address on file with the university.
Students who have a credit balance on their account as a result of a Parent PLUS Loan will be refunded to the parent, or as directed on the Parent PLUS Loan application, within 14 days after the disbursement has been posted to your student account. If the refund check is to be refunded to the parent, the refund check will be mailed to parent. Otherwise, the student will receive direct deposit, or a check will be mailed to the current address on file with the university.
To prevent any outstanding balance because of non-allowable charges, students can complete the Credit Balance Authorization Form. This authorization will allow MSOE to apply the amount of financial aid including federal Title IV funds that exceed the allowable charges to cover all non-allowable charges (such as parking, MSOE Raider Shop supplies, Inclusive Access, lab parts, etc.) to the student account.
Students and parents also have the option to hold any credit balance refund on their student account to cover future term expenses.  The funds will be held on your student account through the end of the academic year or earlier if the student does not plan to attend MSOE for the full academic year.  To hold your credit balance refund, please complete the Credit Balance Authorization Form.
Federal Title IV Funds and Allowable Charges Definitions
Federal regulations require MSOE to only apply financial aid funds including federal Title IV funds to certain allowable charges. Below are listed what is considered Federal Title IV funds and allowable charges.
Federal Title IV funds include:
Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan
Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
Direct Parent PLUS Loan
Pell Grant
SEOG Grant
Iraq Afghanistan Service Grant
Allowable charges include only the following:
Tuition
Mandatory Fees (Technology and Infrastructure and Facilities Fees)
Housing and meals, if contracted with MSOE
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Raider Shop, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly statement. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the MSOE Raider Shop when purchasing their textbooks. Students are able to charge books to their student account during the three weeks before the term begins through the second Tuesday of the term. Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Inclusive Access is a distribution system wherein students are automatically given the course materials electronically when enrolled in a course in which the faculty member has selected to use this type of digital format. Students will be billed automatically through their student account unless they choose to opt out online by 4 p.m. on Friday of the first week of classes.  For additional information please contact the MSOE Raider Shop at
www.bookstore.msoe.edu
,
bookstore@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7173.
Outside Resources Reporting Requirements
If the student receives financial aid or financial support from other agencies, they are required by federal regulations to report the amount of support they receive from those agencies to the Financial Aid Office. Examples of such resources include, but are not limited to, monies received from the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), the Trade Adjustment Act (TAA), private scholarships and employer tuition reimbursement.
Tuition Refunds
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition adjustments will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office in the first five weeks of a semester or first three weeks of a subterm.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Withdrawal from MSOE
Tuition refunds will only be granted to students who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Academic Year
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% tuition refund
During the first week of the semester: 100% tuition refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% tuition refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% tuition refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% tuition refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% tuition refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of the semester: No refund will be granted
No tuition refunds will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the term.
Summer Subterms
:
Prior to the start of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the first week of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the second week of the subterm: 60% tuition refund, owe 40%
During the third week of the subterm: 40% tuition refund, owe 60%
After the third week of the subterm: No refund will be granted
No tuition refunds will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the term.
Withdrawal-Return of Financial Aid
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
Federal Regulation 34 CFR 668.22 specifies how a school must determine the amount of Title IV program assistance you earn if you withdraw from school. The Title IV programs offered by the university that are covered by this law are as follows: Federal Pell Grants, Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants, Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, and Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOG).
Though your aid is posted to your account at the beginning of each term, you earn the funds as you complete the term. If you withdraw from all classes during your period of enrollment, you may have only earned a portion of your Title IV Aid. The amount of aid earned is determined by a specific formula, and if you received more assistance than you earned, the excess funds must be returned by the school.
The amount of aid earned is determined on a pro rata basis. For example, if you completed 30% of your period of enrollment, you earned 30% of the assistance you were scheduled to received. Once you have completed more than 60% of a period of enrollment, you will have earned all your financial aid.
Types of Withdrawals
Official Withdrawals:
The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
Unofficial Withdrawals:
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.  The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed any academically related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the term as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed the term or attended at a later date than the midpoint of the term.
Steps of Return to Title IV:
The “Return to Title IV” calculation involves several steps. Below is the pertinent information involved in the calculation:
The school determines the amount of Title IV financial aid that has been disbursed to your account versus the amount of Title IV financial aid that could have been disbursed to your account. In most cases, the full amount of aid will have disbursed. In the instance that your aid has not been disbursed you may be eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement.
The school determines the amount of time you attended versus the total days in the term. Breaks of five or more days during the term are removed from the total days. The calculation is represented as a percentage of aid the student has earned.
The school multiplies the percentage of aid earned by the total amount of disbursed aid and aid that could have disbursed. This is the amount of aid the student has earned.
The school takes the amount of aid the student has earned and subtracts it from the total aid disbursed for the student. This is the amount of aid the student has not earned.
Any funds not earned will be returned no later than 45 days from the determination of a student’s withdrawal in the in the following order:
a. Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
b. Federal Subsidized Direct Loan
c. Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan
d. Federal Pell Grant
e. Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant
f. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant
6. If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the term, a bill will be mailed to the student for any balance due after the return of financial aid funds.
Post Withdrawal Disbursements:
A student who received less federal financial aid than they earned based on the calculation above may be eligible to receive a post-withdrawal disbursement. The MSOE Financial Aid Office will inform that student in writing that they are eligible for that disbursement prior to making any post-withdrawal disbursement. Any student who is contacted by the MSOE Financial Aid Office will have 14 days from the date of the notification to confirm that they would like to accept all or a portion of the funds available. Federal loans that were awarded and accepted by the student but not originated with the Department of Education are not eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement.
Return of State Funds Policy
If a recipient of state aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the term, MSOE is required to calculate whether a portion of the student’s state financial aid must be returned to the state.
The amount of state aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the term. The amount of state aid earned is determined by the refund policy for each state grant. Please refer below for the refund policies of each individual state grant. Any aid not earned will be returned to the state.
Talent Incentive Program Grant:
Follows the Return of State Funds Policy stated previously
Wisconsin Grants:
If a student withdraws from all classes within weeks one to five and has a credit balance after the federal aid calculations are completed, then the Wisconsin Grant will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If a student withdraws from all classes within weeks one to five and has a debit balance after federal aid calculations are completed then the student may retain Wisconsin Grant funds for that term, if those funds apply to the debit balance. If a portion of the Wisconsin Grant creates a credit balance on the student’s account, that portion will be returned to the state. State aid will not be returned. If a student withdraws from all classes after week five, then the Wisconsin Grant will be retained by the student.
Hearing/Visually Handicapped Program/Indian Student Assistance Grant/Minority Undergraduate Retention Grant/Academic Excellence Scholarship:
If a student withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the term and has a credit balance after federal calculations are completed, then the state funds (shown above) will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If the student has a debit balance after federal calculations are completed, then the student may retain the state funds shown above.
Return of Institutional Funds Policy
If a recipient of MSOE scholarship or grants officially withdraws before 4:30 p.m. Friday of week five, MSOE will calculate the amount of institutional aid the student earned and return the unearned aid back to the university.
The amount of aid earned is based on the withdrawal date and matches the tuition refund policy above.
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% institutional funds returned
During the first week of the semester: 100% institutional funds returned
During the second week of the semester: 80% institutional funds returned
During the third week of the semester: 60% institutional funds returned
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% institutional funds returned
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% institutional funds returned
After the fifth week of the semester: No institutional funds returned
Seeking Additional Help on the Impact of Withdrawing on Financial Aid
If you need to withdraw from all of your classes, you are encouraged to speak to a financial aid counselor before doing so to determine how it may affect your financial aid. If you have any questions about your Title IV program funds, you can call the Federal Student Aid Information Center at 1-800-4-FEDAID (1-800-433-3243). TTY users may call 1-800-730-8913. Information is also available on Student Aid at
studentaid.gov
.
Other Refund Policies
Residence Hall Room Fee Refund Policy
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of housing fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. All residence hall refunds are determined by the actual move-out date as approved by the Dean of Residence Life.
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% room fee refund
During the first week of the semester: 100% room fee refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% room fee refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% room fee refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% room fee refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% room fee refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of the semester: No refund will be granted
In the event of residency termination due to disciplinary action, the resident will not be eligible for a room refund for that term.
Grohmann Tower Apartment Fee Refund Policy
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of apartment fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. All apartment fee refunds are determined by the actual move-out date.
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% refund
During the first week of the semester: 100% refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of the semester: No refund will be granted
In the event of residency termination due to disciplinary action, the resident will not be eligible for an apartment refund for that term.
Meal Plan Fee Refund Policy
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate their student status, 7-day unlimited meal plans from the current term will be refunded according to the schedule below. Meals and meal dollars carried over from the previous term will be forfeited. The meal plan contract period runs from the beginning of Fall Semester through the end of Spring Semester.
Meal Refund Schedule:
Week 1 = Total-Usage: 7-day unlimited meal plan balance refunded at 100%
Week 2 = Total-Usage: 7-day unlimited meal plan balance at 80%
Week 3 = Total-Usage: 7-day unlimited meal plan balance at 60%
Week 4 = Total-Usage: 7-day unlimited meal plan balance at 40%
Week 5 = Total-Usage: 7-day unlimited meal plan balance at 20%
After Week 5: 0% of the 7-day unlimited meal plan will be refunded
At the end of the contract period all meals must be used, or they will be lost. No refund will be granted.
Technology Package Refund Policy
Technology package refunds will be made for students who officially withdraw from ALL classes and return their laptop to the Information Technology Department (IT) according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% technology fee refund
During the first week of the semester: 100% technology fee refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% technology fee refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% technology fee refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% technology fee refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% technology fee refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of semester: No refund will be granted.
Should a laptop not be returned, all efforts will be made by IT to contact the student to arrange for return of the laptop. The Use Agreement that the student signed requires that the student return the equipment to the university within five days prior to the expiration or termination of the Use Agreement. The Use Agreement begins the first day of the first month following the date that this Use Agreement is signed or upon delivery of the equipment, whichever is earlier. The “Use Agreement Period” shall extend from the Use Agreement begin date to the user’s graduation date from MSOE. When the user becomes a non-registered student of MSOE, the Use Agreement is terminated, and the laptop must be returned. If the device or equipment is not returned, it is considered lost/stolen and the student will be charged for the full value of the device or equipment. If these charges are not paid for the value of the device or equipment, your account may be placed with a third-party collections agency.
Questions regarding the technology package refund policy should be directed to IT.
Infrastructure Fee Refund Policy
The infrastructure fee is non-refundable and no refunds will be granted to students that withdraw.
Parking Permit Refund Policy
MSOE Student Parking Permit refunds will be made for students who officially withdraw from ALL classes and
return
their Parking Permit to MSOE Public Safety according to the following schedule:
During the first week of the semester: 100% parking permit refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% parking permit refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% parking permit refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% parking permit refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% parking permit refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of semester: No refund will be granted for a parking permit.
Tuition Appeal Policy
Tuition appeal provides the opportunity for a student to request an exception to MSOE’s Student Financial Agreement.
1.
The following conditions must be met in order for a tuition appeal to be considered:
a.
A student may submit an appeal within one year from the term they intend to appeal.
b.
Tuition appeal form must be completed with supporting documentation.
2.
The following circumstances will be reviewed and considered by the Tuition Variance Committee:
a.
Medical emergency
b.
Immediate family emergency
c.
Military deployment
d.
Significant physical and/or mental illness, excluding conditions or illnesses known to the student at the time of enrollment.
3.
The following circumstances will not be reviewed and considered by the Tuition Variance Committee:
a.
Unawareness and/or loss of Financial Aid eligibility
b.
Unawareness of student communication and lack of use of MSOE email
c.
Lack of knowledge of university deadlines, policies, and procedures
d.
Errors in personal judgment involving work/school/life balance, finances, grades or time management.
More details and the tuition appeal student form can be found on a student’s myMSOE portal under Student Account Forms.
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for MSOE Financial Aid Recipients
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete both 1.) A minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) and 2.) Maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Qualitative Component
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed to ensure the student will be meeting requirements to obtain a degree.
Students are monitored at the end of each academic term, including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 2.0 CGPA at the time of review will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 2.0 CGPA by the end of the warning term.
If the student reestablishes a 2.0 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 2.0 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance. Students can appeal their suspension. Please see the appeal section below.
Quantitative Component
Students must successfully complete at least 67% of cumulative credits attempted. The percentage is calculated by dividing successfully completed credits (passing grades and transfer credit) by attempted credits.  Attempted credits include successfully completed credits, earned F’s, incompletes, withdrawals, and courses that were grade replaced. 67% completion is required to assure that students can obtain a degree in the maximum time frame allowed. Please review the maximum time frame section for more information.
Students are monitored at the end of each academic term, including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage by the end of the warning term.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance. Students can appeal their suspension. Please see the appeal section below.
Grading Scale
MSOE’s grading scale consists of passing and non-passing grades, on which the Financial Aid SAP policy is based.
Passing Grades
consist of the following: A, AB, B, BC, C, CD, D, S, P, LP
Non-Passing Grades
consist of the following: F, F*, NP, U, W, NR
In the event of a significant disruption of academic activities, as declared by the Executive Vice President of Academics, a temporary, alternative pass/no pass grading scale may be employed. The use of the alternative grading scale must be authorized by the Council for Academic Planning and communicated by the Executive Vice President of Academics. When in effect, the alternative grading scale must be consistently applied university wide.
“Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a C grade or higher, as C is defined in the standard undergraduate grading scale.
“Low Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a CD or D grade, as they are defined in the standard undergraduate grading scale.
“No Pass” is defined as the equivalent of an F grade, as F is defined in the standard graduate grading scale.
Students who have a grade change from a non-passing grade to a passing grade can request a re-evaluation of their SAP standing. Students seeking this option must submit an updated transcript to the MSOE Financial Aid Office with the re-evaluation request. Please allow 1-2 weeks for processing. Students who have changed majors will have the option to have courses that do not meet academic requirements for the new major removed or “pounded out.” Students with this type of change to their transcript may request a re-evaluation from the Financial Aid Office.
Appeals
If a student is placed on financial aid suspension, they may appeal their suspension. Students are notified of their suspension status via email to their MSOE email address. Included in this notification is instructions on where to find the appeal form and the deadline based on the academic term. Appeals must be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office by 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the fifth week of classes of the suspension term.
Students may file an appeal for the following reasons: death of a relative, personal injury or illness, or other extenuating circumstances that the student can document. Students must indicate why they failed to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress and what has changed in their situation to allow the student to meet the requirements. Students must also provide documentation of their extenuating circumstance along with the written appeal. Incomplete appeals will not be accepted. The Financial Aid Office will present this information to a committee, which may consist of members from The Financial Aid Office, Academics, Registrar, and Raider Center for Academic Success. This committee will be responsible for reviewing the appeals to determine the next appropriate action.  Students will be notified in writing of the decision within two weeks from the date that the appeal was received.
Students are limited to two suspension appeals to the Financial Aid Office while attending MSOE. Students will also have a one-time opportunity to appeal to the Executive Vice President of Academics in the event of a) a third appeal request OR b) an appeal denial from the Financial Aid Office (first or second appeal). Once an appeal is made to the Executive Vice President of Academics, no further appeals will be allowed.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved may be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must reestablish a 2.0 CGPA and/or reestablish 67% completion rate of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
Students whose appeals have been approved may have to complete an MSOE Financial Aid Plan Agreement if it is determined by the Financial Aid Office that they cannot reestablish a 2.0 CGPA and/or reestablish 67% completion rate of cumulative credits attempted within one term of study. The academic plan will be developed on an individual basis and may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, meetings with a counselor and the Raider Center for Academic Success. The plan must be signed by both the student and a Raider Center for Academic Success staff member and returned to the Financial Aid Office by the due date specified on the plan agreement. Failure to submit a signed plan by the due date results in suspension of financial aid for the term. Academic plans are drafted for the fall and spring terms. Students who enroll in the summer term will have an updated plan that includes enrollment in this term. Students should notify the Financial Aid Office if they enroll in the summer term while on an academic plan.
Denial of Appeal
Students whose financial aid suspension appeal is denied will have a one-time opportunity to forward their appeal to the Executive Vice President of Academics for review. Once an appeal is made to the Executive Vice President of Academics, no further appeals will be allowed. Students whose appeal is denied by the Executive Vice President of Academics or students who decide not to forward their appeal will need to find sources of funding other than federal, state, or MSOE financial aid to cover the costs of the term.
MSOE Financial Aid Office will review students’ cumulative grade point average and percent of successfully completed credits each term. Once they have reached a 2.0 CGPA and/or completion rate of at least 67% of cumulative credits attempted, their financial aid will be reinstated. Students who are unable to meet the requirements after one term on financial aid suspension will have the opportunity to appeal their suspension again unless they have appealed twice previously or their financial aid suspension appeal was previously forwarded to the vice president of academics.
Maximum Time Frame
Students must complete their degree program within 150% of the published length of their degree program.  The following will be considered when calculating the maximum time frame:
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Students who repeat a course will have both the initial and subsequent course(s) count toward completion of published length of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Remedial courses will be counted toward completion of the published length of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Courses where a student withdraws are also included in the maximum time frame calculation as attempted credits only and will be counted toward completion of published length of the degree program.
Courses in terms where students are not receiving financial aid will also be calculated as part of the maximum time frame calculation for financial aid purposes.
Students who change majors must submit a Change of Program form with MSOE’s Registrar’s Office.  When submitting the form, students will have the option to have all courses that do not meet academic requirements for the new major removed (pounded out).  If a student chooses this option, courses removed will not be considered in the maximum time frame calculation and will not count towards the CGPA calculation.
When calculating the maximum time frame for students enrolled in two degree programs, the calculation will be based on 150% of the total credits needed to complete the longest of the two programs.
Please note:
Students’ enrollment level is determined by the number of credits in which they are enrolled at the end of the add/drop period.
Federal Pell Grant, MSOE scholarships, and MSOE grants are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (12 full-time terms).
Wisconsin grant is awarded for a maximum of 5 years (10 terms).
MSOE Academic Scholarship Policy
Students must enroll full time each term to receive the MSOE Academic Scholarship. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12 or more credits at the end of the add/drop period each term.
Students may request an exception to the full-time enrollment policy for up to two terms during their MSOE careers. If a student is or plans to be registered less than full time for a term, they may request a proration of the MSOE scholarship by contacting the Financial Aid Office. Scholarship proration is not available for summer enrollment or for a student’s first term of enrollment at MSOE.
MSOE Academic Scholarships may be extended to a sixth full-time year (up to 12 full-time terms).
To maintain MSOE Academic Scholarships, students must meet
MSOE’s Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
.
Please note that there is a separate MSOE Presidential Scholarship policy. Recipients of MSOE Presidential Scholarship can contact the Financial Aid Office for a copy of this policy.
Financial Aid Eligible Course Work
Federal financial aid regulations state that to qualify for federal financial aid, students must enroll in course work that leads to a degree in their program of study. Any credits in which a student enrolls that are not part of their program of study (i.e., curriculum track) are not eligible for federal or state financial aid.
There are a limited number of exceptions where course work outside of a student’s program track could be considered for federal and/or state financial aid. They include:
Course work approved by an academic advisor which is a substitute for an existing course in the student’s program track.
Remedial course work
Course work leading to a minor (student must declare minor with the Registrar’s Office)
Financial aid will be awarded according to the student’s enrollment level at the end of the add/drop period each term.
Repeated Course Work
The student’s enrollment level is determined by the number of credits in which they are enrolled at the end of the add/drop period. Repeated courses will be included in the determination of their enrollment status for financial aid purposes with the exception of successfully completed courses (grades A-D) that have been repeated more than once.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.