Academic Regulations and Policies - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Professional Education
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Research Opportunities
Academic Departments, Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Administration, Board of Regents, and Graduate Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Academic Regulations and Policies
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Student Integrity
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
Research with Human Participants
General Policies
Registration and Course-Related Policies
Grades and Grading
Academic Progress Requirements
Transfer of Graduate Credit
Procedure for Changing Graduate Program
Graduation Requirements and Procedures
Awarding of Two Master’s Degrees
Certificates
Office of Academics
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-420
Phone: (414) 277-7190
The regulations and policies of MSOE include only those that are necessary for the proper organization and operation of the university. MSOE reserves the right to change the rules governing admission, tuition and the granting of degrees, or any other regulation affecting its students. Such changes shall take effect whenever the administration deems it necessary. MSOE also reserves the right to exclude, at any time, students whose conduct or standing is regarded as undesirable.
Student Integrity
As an institution of higher learning, MSOE is committed above all to the educational development of its students as responsible and principled human beings. As such, MSOE is accountable to all whom it serves and by whom it is scrutinized. The university has a priority interest in promoting personal integrity and in ensuring the authenticity of its graduates’ credentials.
The university is similarly mindful that the professions, business and industry are concerned with ethical behavior no less than the professional practice of their members and employees. Therefore, MSOE students preparing for professional careers and leadership roles that are founded on responsibility and trust, must observe and be guided by the highest standards of personal integrity both in and out of the classroom.
The expectations of the university with respect to academic and classroom integrity are reflected in, but not limited to, the following guidelines:
Each student must recognize that even a poorly developed piece of work that represents their best efforts is far more worthwhile than the most outstanding piece of work taken from someone else.
Students must observe the rules established by a faculty member for a particular course.
Assignments prepared outside of class must include appropriate documentation of all borrowed ideas and expressions. The absence of such documentation constitutes “plagiarism,” which is the knowing or negligent use of the ideas, expressions or work of another with intent to pass such materials off as one’s own. It is an act of plagiarism if a student purchases a paper or submits a paper, computer program, or drawing claiming it to be theirs when they did not write it.
Each student should consistently prepare for examinations so as to reduce temptation toward dishonesty.
A student may not share examination answers with others for the purpose of cheating, nor should they, intentionally or through carelessness, give them an opportunity to obtain the same.
Academic dishonesty or cheating includes the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for academic work through the use of any dishonest, deceptive or fraudulent means. Cheating at MSOE includes but is not limited to:
Copying, in part or in whole, from another’s test or homework assignments, worksheets, lab reports, essays, summaries, quizzes, etc.
Copying examinations and quizzes, in whole or in part, unless approved by the instructor.
Submitting work previously graded in another course unless this has been approved by the course instructor or by departmental policy.
Submitting work simultaneously presented in two courses, unless this has been approved by both course instructors or by the department policies of both departments.
Communicating electronically (unless approved by the instructor) during examinations with the intent to seek or provide answers.
Attempting to present as the student’s own work, materials or papers purchased or downloaded from the Internet.
Violating discipline specific health, safety or ethical requirements to gain any unfair advantage in lab(s) or clinical assignments
Any other act committed that defrauds or misrepresents, including aiding or abetting in any of the actions defined above.
Claiming credit for a group project or paper when the individual student made little or no contribution to the group’s product.
Accessing reference documents during an exam or quiz unless approved by the course instructor.
A student of integrity will not support, encourage or protect others who are involved in academic dishonesty in any way, and will furthermore attempt to dissuade another student from engaging in dishonest acts.
A student who acts without integrity in an academic setting shall be subject to sanctions. Sanctions are at the discretion of the instructor and may take one of many forms. Example sanctions include written reprimand, penalty on an assignment or exam, or “F” grade for the assignment, exam or course. If the instructor assigns an “F” for the course, the student will not be allowed to drop the course. If the student believes the sanction was unwarranted, they have the right to appeal following established procedures. All breaches of academic integrity will be reported to the vice president of academics using the required form. Upon recommendation of the instructor or at their initiation, the vice president of academics may decide that repeated or extremely serious acts of dishonesty may be grounds for more severe disciplinary action. Such cases will be referred to the dean of students per section 18 of the Student Conduct Code.
Process for Adjudicating Isolated Breaches of Academic Integrity
The student will be notified by the faculty member either within three academic working days of the faculty member’s awareness of the problem or at the next class session attended by the student. The faculty member will notify the student using the “Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form”. The student will have three academic working days to communicate to the faculty member any disagreement of information reported in the notification. The faculty member may elect to make modifications to the form, or retract it, in response to this communication. The final version of the form will be sent to the chair of the academic department or school and the vice president of academics. The vice president of academics will retain all such reports in a file and may refer egregious behavior or repeated reports involving the same student to the dean of students as describe in the Student Conduct Code. Any referral will only occur after the completion of the appeal process described in this section.
The following procedure will be used if a student wishes to appeal a faculty member’s judgment that academic integrity was breached. Filing appeals in accordance with these provisions shall not suspend the sanction declared in the case by the faculty member. The student will remain in class during the entire appeal process.
The student will have three academic working days after delivery of the written notification to initiate an appeal to the chairperson of the academic department or school in which the faculty member serves. The student will be deemed to have waived their right to appeal unless they file the appeal with the academic chair within these three academic working days. The statement of appeal must specify the reasons countering the faculty member’s determination that the student acted without integrity
The academic chair will have three academic working days in which to review the appeal. The purpose of the academic chair’s review is to determine if sufficient evidence exists that the student did not act with integrity. The chairperson must inform the student and faculty member of /her judgment within those three academic working days. If the academic chair finds in favor of the student, the sanction and the Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form filed with the vice president of academics will be retracted, unless an additional appeal is made by the faculty member.
The student or faculty member may further appeal, in writing to the vice president of academics, the decision of the academic chair.  This appeal must occur within three academic working days.
The vice president of academics has the final say in determining if a student did not act with integrity. To aid in this process, the vice president of academics may elect to convene an academic review board to hear the appeal. If so, the academic review board will consider the written appeal and shall allow both the student and faculty member to appear in person before the committee. The academic review board is expected to provide an opinion to the vice president of academics within three academic working days from the commencement of its proceedings. If the final determination is that academic integrity was not breached, all forms will be retracted.
The student may bring a representative to any meeting established under this procedure. The faculty member may also have representation at any meeting.
Process for Adjudicating Egregious, or Repeated, Breaches of Academic Integrity
Upon receipt of report of egregious or repeated notifications for breaches of academic integrity that are upheld throughout the appeal process, the vice president of academics may elect to refer students to the dean of students for action under section 18 of the Student Conduct Code.
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
The Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) seeks to respond to, and to resolve in a timely manner, all complaints by currently enrolled students. A complaint is a written expression of dissatisfaction or formal allegation against the university, its units, its employees (including faculty and staff), and/or its students.  The process to appeal an assigned grade for a course is outlined later in the section titled “Grade Appeals.”
Currently enrolled students who have a complaint first should try to work out the problem by discussing it in a factual and professional manner with those persons most involved with the issue. Many complaints can be resolved when a student makes an effort to honestly communicate their frustrations or concerns. If a student has a complaint related to a specific course in which they are enrolled, the student should first consult with the instructor of the course. If necessary, the instructor will consult the academic chair responsible for the course regarding guidance on how to best resolve the student’s concern. For all other campus complaints (academic and non-academic) that the student cannot resolve informally with the parties involved, the student should follow the
Student Complaint Process
. The process includes the instructions, timelines and official complaint form.
Types of Complaints EXCLUDED from this Reporting Procedure
Student complaints concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are excluded from this student complaint reporting procedure. Instead, the student complaint procedure concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct is addressed in the MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy. Students who are victims of sexual misconduct have the right to report the incident in a confidential manner. For more information concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, or for details on how to report sexual harassment or a sexual misconduct incident in a confidential manner, please refer to the MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy. Students who wish to file an official report with MSOE concerning an incident involving sexual harassment or sexual misconduct should report directly to the MSOE Title IX Coordinator, Kip Kussman (414) 277-7225,
k
ussman@msoe.edu
or to the MSOE Title IX Deputy Coordinator Gary Shimek (414) 277-7181,
shimek@msoe.edu
.
Research with Human Participants
MSOE’s Institutional Review Board (MSOE IRB) is an administrative body established to protect the rights and well-being of human subjects recruited to participate in research activities.  MSOE IRB has jurisdiction over human subject research activities conducted at MSOE, human subject research activities conducted by MSOE employees, students, or agents at any location, and human subject research activities that use MSOE resources.   All students, staff, and faculty at MSOE planning to conduct research involving human participants must submit an IRB protocol application package for review by MSOE IRB including proof of relevant training certification.  Investigators must obtain written approval from MSOE IRB before human subject recruitment and research may begin.
In accordance with regulatory standards, MSOE IRB is comprised of qualified board members that include at least one non-scientist and one community representative.   MSOE’s vice president of academics serves as the Institutional Official for MSOE IRB.  Human subject researchers (e.g. investigators) at MSOE comply with requirements set forth in the code of Federal Regulations known as the “Common Rule” as well as Wisconsin State laws and MSOE policies.  Federally funded multi-site studies requiring single IRB (sIRB) review involve coordinated local oversight by and advanced planning with the MSOE IRB office. In any study, if investigators intend to recruit study participants from locations outside of the United States, the primary investigator (PI) must first secure written approval from MSOE IRB prior to contacting research officials in other countries.
The purpose of IRB oversight is to ensure adequacy of the research plan, to minimize risks, and to maximize benefits for human subjects who participate in research activities.  If the investigator is a student, the research must be performed under supervision of an MSOE faculty or staff member who, by their signature, assumes responsibility for the conduct of the research with respect to proper safeguards of the rights of human subjects (participants).
MSOE IRB approval is required before human subject research is undertaken by students for classroom work, independent study, senior design, nursing professional practice projects, surveys, master’s degree theses, or any purpose not specifically listed.  This includes research with human subjects (participants) conducted for non-academic purposes, as well.  Data collection by students or faculty/staff for assessment purposes only does not need MSOE IRB approval.  Proposals for research projects conducted as classroom activities need to be submitted to the MSOE IRB if the intention is to share results of the project in a public forum or through publication.  Class projects in which results will only be presented to students enrolled in the course and instructor(s) assigned to the course do not need IRB approval.  It is the instructor’s responsibility to ensure that there are minimal risks for both the student researchers and their participants.  If the instructor assumes that the project could lead to further presentation of results, either through publication or public forum, those projects will need to be reviewed by the IRB prior to the activity. Results of classroom activities cannot be presented outside of the classroom without IRB approval; retroactive IRB approval is never granted. For further information, please see the IRB Guidelines at
https://libguides.msoe.edu/irb
.
Registrar’s Office
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-377
Phone: (414) 277-7215
Website:
https://www.msoe.edu/academics/departments/registrar/
Student Responsibility
Students at MSOE are aided in their academic pursuits by various individuals and groups including faculty, academic advisors, support advisors, program directors and the Registrar’s Office staff. However, each student is ultimately responsible for knowing and complying with MSOE’s academic policies, procedures and deadlines. Each student is responsible for meeting all course, credit and grade point average requirements for graduation with their chosen degree.
Furthermore, the majority of communication from MSOE to students, along with interaction with various procedures, occurs electronically.  Students are responsible for regularly checking their MSOE assigned accounts, for responding to official communication as specified, and for resolving any access issues with MSOE’s Information Technology Department.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
MSOE is in compliance with the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974
, the purpose of which is to let the student know what educational records are kept by the university, to give the student the right to inspect such records and to ask for correction if necessary, and to control the release of such information to those who are not involved in the educational process. Under the Privacy Act, certain directory information can be made available to anyone who requests it unless the student specifically asks, in writing, that this not be done. The following is information that MSOE considers to be directory information: name, address, telephone number, email address, program, grade level, dates of attendance, enrollment status (full-time, part-time, withdrawn, not enrolled), degrees and honors received, participation in officially recognized sports and activities, previously attended institutions, class schedule, photographic, video, or electronic images, and program and promotion materials for university-related activities such as athletics, extra-curricular activities and academic competitions.
Credit Hour Definition
For each academic credit hour, a minimum of one contact hour (50 minutes of instructional time) spent in class each week is expected for lecture-based courses, or a minimum of two contact hours spent each week in the laboratory or clinical component of a course. Instructional time is regular, substantive, and direct student-faculty interaction in the delivery of course materials, whether in person or online.
For each academic credit hour, a typical undergraduate student is expected to spend two clock hours outside of class preparing for and studying for the class. Outside of class activities are required learning activities completed outside of instructional time, such as homework and reading. Time spent outside of class for a typical graduate student is expected to exceed two clock hours per credit hour. For courses featuring alternative delivery modalities (e.g. hybrid, online, accelerated), the academic department or school maintains parity tables that document how expected class contact time is accounted for in the alternative method.
Course parity is the requirement that while courses may be delivered with different methods or modalities, they must maintain the same quality as measured through instructional time and outside-of-class activities such as preparatory reading and homework.  If courses are offered in different modalities, such as in-person, online, hybrid, or accelerated, they must have the same learning outcomes, the same or similar expectations for time spent in class and out of class to meet the designated credit level for the course. Non-traditional credit-bearing experiences, such as independent studies or practica, must require the same total amount of learning time to be awarded the designated credit amount, although it may be distributed differently.
Regardless of delivery format, every for-credit course includes direct faculty-student interaction by a qualified instructor, and faculty are expected to prepare activities that meet the designated credit hours for the course. These expectations are expressed through learning outcomes, which provide consistency across modalities and instructors.
Attendance
MSOE expects all students to attend regularly and promptly all lectures, laboratories and other sessions of courses for which they are registered. It is the student’s responsibility to add and drop classes from their academic schedule. Faculty are required to report students who never attend class to the Registrar’s Office. MSOE cannot charge tuition and release financial aid to students if they did not attend class.
Faculty have the option of developing a policy concerning grade reduction for excessive absence from class. Any policy of this nature must be communicated in the syllabus. Faculty must report any students who never attended class to the Registrar’s Office by Friday of the second week of the term. Faculty should use the Early Alert system to report students who have stopped attending class. The Financial Aid Office may contact the faculty for the last attendance date for those students, so they can correctly process the return of financial aid. Faculty should record an approximate date of last attendance in their records.
While emphasizing that it is each student’s responsibility to balance academic course work and extra-curricular endeavors, MSOE administration and faculty recognize the commitment of students to MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular activities and seek to facilitate their participation in intercollegiate events and military service. MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular endeavors include varsity athletic competitions, academic conferences, intercollegiate competitions, and military service. The student affected will personally notify their instructor no less than two (2) weeks in advance of any class or laboratory session that may be missed, and the student will request arrangements for making up missed academic work.  Some events are scheduled without two weeks advanced notice, such as rescheduled events for weather and final tournaments, however, students will do their best to provide two-week notice for the possibility of these events and continue to keep their instructors informed of changes. For academic work (e.g. quizzes, tests, presentations, labs, clinicals, etc.), an instructor will give the student a comparable alternate assignment or require the student to complete the work at an alternate time and/or date. If the instructor considers it unfeasible to grant a student’s request for accommodation, the rationale for denial must be communicated in writing to the student in question and the faculty member’s academic chair within 48 hours. If the extra-curricular activity is an athletic competition, the rationale must also be communicated with the Faculty Athletic Representative. If military service causes the missed academic work, the rationale for denial must also be communicated with the Dean of Students. The Department Chair will then communicate to the aforementioned parties the decision on whether the student is entitled to the requested accommodation. Following the Department Chair’s decision, students or instructors may send appeals to the vice president of academics for a decision.
Student Accessibility and Accommodations
MSOE is committed to making its curriculum academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions, and mental health conditions, as well as to students who become temporarily disabled due to mental and physical health concerns (inclusive of injury and concussion), in line with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Accommodations can be made for qualified individuals and are designed to create equal educational access for students without compromising the essential elements of our curriculum. Eligibility for accommodations is done on an individual basis determined by student need. Students are required to submit verification documentation prior to receiving accommodations through
Student Accessibility Services
.
Final Exams
A final examination is required in every credit course except in courses designated by the various departments, and that exam will be administered in the two-hour block designated. The type of examination should be in agreement with that specified in the departmental course outline and announced to the class near the beginning of the quarter. Undergraduate final examinations may not count for more than 40 percent of the final grade.
The final examination period will be Monday-Friday of the eleventh week during the Fall, Winter and Spring Quarters. Day class exams will be held between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Night class exams will be held on a day the class usually meets between 5:30 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. but not necessarily at the time the class usually meets. Exams for classes meeting only on Saturday will be held on Saturday of the eleventh week.
For summer subterms with fewer than 10 weeks of instruction, the exam will occur on the last scheduled day of the class.  For summer subterms that have 10 weeks of instruction, the faculty will schedule the exam to take place in the week following the last scheduled day of class but no later than the last day of the subterm.
If an unavoidable conflict exists, the student will contact all teachers for resolution of the conflict. The chairpersons of the academic departments or schools will ultimately resolve conflicts. If a student has more than two final examinations scheduled on one day, the student is encouraged to petition individual teachers to see if an accommodation can be made. All written, in-class final examinations should follow the examination schedule available on the Registrar’s Office website.
No classes will be held during the exam week. Voluntary (optional) class review sessions may be held.
If local or national emergencies prevent the university from being open on one or more days of exam week, the exams on those days will be cancelled.
Individual faculty members may proctor an exam if a student requests it. The exam would be given at a time arranged by the faculty member but within the next quarter, and a change of grade submitted.
Full-time Status
MSOE graduate students are classified as enrolled full time if they are registered for nine or more graduate credits as of the close of business on Friday of the first week of the quarter. For financial aid purposes, a student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per quarter to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans.
Academic Advising
Each degree program at MSOE has a designated program director who acts as mentor and academic advisor for all students in that program. Incoming students are provided with a program of study. For those students who meet all of the graduate admission requirements, the program outline identifies all required courses and the exact credit breakdown related to electives.
Most of the graduate programs require new students to meet with the program director prior to registering for the first course to ensure that the new students understand the curriculum and future scheduling procedures. Students are encouraged to call the program director or faculty advisor whenever they have questions about the program. In subsequent quarters, students whose cumulative grade point average falls below a specified minimum (normally 3.00) will be required to consult with the program director prior to registration.
The program director, designated faculty advisors, academic chairpersons and the registrar work together to ensure that students in a particular degree program make satisfactory progress without violating prerequisites.
It is recommended that students with a designated advisor consult with him/her during each Spring Quarter to review their current academic program. At that time, they may discuss with the advisor a provisional study program for the next academic year.
Prerequisites
The student is responsible for ensuring that they have successfully completed all prerequisites before taking a course. If any prerequisites have not been successfully completed by the start of the course, the student is required to drop the course. Students in violation of this prerequisite policy are subject to removal from the course. The student will be allowed to continue in the course only if a prerequisite waiver is approved by the appropriate program director. Prerequisites are listed in the
Course Descriptions
section of the academic catalog.
Registration Deadline–Adding Classes/Changing Sections
The deadline to register for classes is Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 pm. Students may neither add a course nor change sections after 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week.  Classes dropped after the Registration Deadline will appear on the student’s transcript with a grade of W (withdrawal).
The registration deadline is also the deadline for students who want to change from credit to audit status or from audit to credit status.
Dropping Individual Classes
The deadline for students to drop individual classes from their schedule is Monday of the 8
th
week of the term at 4:30 pm.
Any course dropped after Friday of the first week at 4:30, will show on the student transcript with a grade of W.  Prior to Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 pm, a student may drop a course from their schedule with no financial consequence and no record of the drop on their transcript.
During the summer term, the deadline to drop individual classes is the Friday of the week before the final exam at 4:30 pm.  If there is no final exam scheduled, the deadline is the Friday of the week before the final class meeting.
All students are responsible for their academic schedule.
Leave of Absence, Withdrawal, and University Departure
Students considering taking a leave of absence, withdrawing from all classes or requesting a university departure, if they have not already, are encouraged to discuss their specific circumstances with the
Raider Center for Academic Success
, their faculty advisor, or other campus support staff. For students who, after reflection on their personal, financial and academic considerations, determine taking a leave of absence, withdrawing from all courses, or requesting a university departure is in their best interest, an official form must be submitted. This form can be found on the Registrar’s Office website or can be picked up from the Registrar’s Office.
Leave of Absence
A leave of absence is a planned interruption of attendance for one or more terms, but less than two years, before continuing with courses. The official form must be submitted to request a leave of absence. Students may submit their request at any time for the subsequent term or can request a leave of absence in conjunction with a withdrawal of all classes. If there is a need to take some time off due to a medical or mental health concern, a medical leave of absence can be provided. The Dean of Students Office will assist with coordination of medical leave along with re-entry to the university.
The deadline to submit a request for a leave of absence is 4:30pm on Friday of the first week of the term in which the student wishes to take a leave of absence.
Students who are absent for one or more terms without officially taking a leave of absence may need to reapply and be reconsidered for admission to the university.
Withdrawal from All Classes
Withdrawal from all classes is a removal from all current term classes after the Friday of week one with the intent to re-enroll for the subsequent term. The official form must be submitted to formally withdraw from all classes. A formal withdrawal from all classes will result in final grades of W being reported for all registered classes. Mere absence from classes is not an indication of a formal withdraw. If there is a need to withdraw from all current courses due to a medical or mental health concern, a medical withdrawal can be provided. The Dean of Students Office will assist with coordination of the medical withdrawal along with registration for the subsequent term.
The deadline to withdraw from all current classes is
4:30 p.m. Friday of the 10th week of classes.
During the summer term, the deadline to withdraw from all classes is the Friday of the week before the final exam. If there is no final exam scheduled, the deadline is the Friday of the week before the final class meeting at 4:30 pm.
University Departure
University departure is a separation from the University, either during the current term or in between terms without intent of re-enrollment. The official form must be submitted to formally request a university departure and ensure a successful transition from enrollment at MSOE. The official university departure request can be submitted at any time, either in conjunction with a withdrawal from all classes or independently for the subsequent term. Submission of an official university departure request does not prevent a student from re-enrolling at MSOE at a later date.
Additional Circumstances
If a student is receiving financial aid, it is strongly recommended that they contact the Financial Aid Office prior to withdrawing so that they can explain any financial consequences associated with the withdrawal. For more information about the tuition effects of withdrawal refer to the
Financial Aid catalog section.
International students, student-athletes and students who receive military education benefits, may have additional considerations when withdrawing. Students are advised to discuss their specific situation with the International Affairs staff, Athletics Department and/or the VA Certifying Official for more information prior to submitting an official form for taking a leave of absence or withdrawing from classes.
Military Call to Active Duty or Training
MSOE is committed to supporting students who have been called to active duty and/or training by any branch of the United States Armed Forces prior to or during periods of enrollment. The university will work with students on the best course of action, taking into consideration the time of the term, length of activation and the student’s specific needs. Students who are called to active duty should contact the Dean of Students Office for support and the VA Certifying Official if they are receiving military benefits.
Repeated Withdrawals
A student who withdraws from all current classes for any two consecutive terms will have a hold placed on their account.  The student will need to submit a written explanation of the circumstances that led to the withdrawals and may need to meet with an ad hoc committee to discuss their readiness to return to classes.  The committee will determine whether the student is allowed to register or must take additional time off.
Refunds
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal,
NOT
on the date of last class attendance. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Should a student fail to meet the withdrawal deadline, they will be responsible for tuition for all scheduled classes. Please see the refund schedule for information on how refunds will be administered.
Readmission of Service Members
The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 requires that students who left MSOE to serve in the uniformed services be re-admitted into the same program with the same standing they had when they left. MSOE allows for special re-admission of these students, with the following provisions:
Student’s lapse in attendance was due to active duty in the uniformed services, including the National Guard or Reserve, for more than 30 days.
The student must submit documentation that their absence was due to participation in the uniformed services. (Examples of such documentation include a copy of the student’s orders, a DD214, or a signed and dated statement from the student’s commanding officer.)
The cumulative length of all absences from MSOE for participation in the uniformed services does not exceed five years.
The student will be admitted to the same academic program, with the same academic standing, that they were in at the time the absence began.  If the exact program is no longer offered, the student will be placed into a program that is most similar to that program, unless the student requests or agrees to admission to a different program.
The student’s ability to be readmitted under the terms of the HEOA terminates upon any of the following events:
a. Being separated from the armed forces with a dishonorable discharge.
b. Being dismissed as permitted under section 1161(a) of title 10, United States Code.
c. Being dropped from the rolls pursuant to section 1161(b) of title 10, United States Code.
Students who are expected to leave for active duty service should contact the Registrar’s Office as well as the School Certifying Official to ensure all required items are taken care of prior to deployment (laptop hand-in, document submission, etc.). To start the readmission process, servicemembers must complete an admissions application and contact MSOE’s Admissions Office as well as
MSOE’s Veterans Certifying Official
.
Auditing a Class
An audit is intended to provide students with an opportunity to review subject matter they have previously studied or to participate in courses to obtain information of interest to them.  Since an audit does not carry any credits, auditing of noncredit courses such as seminars and short courses is not permitted.
Students must have the proper prerequisites for the course.
Students may not enroll for subsequent courses for credit based upon audited prerequisite subjects.
Students may not use audited courses to satisfy any degree requirements.
Students may not audit non-credit courses.
Registration priority for courses is given to credit-seeking students, so availability is not guaranteed.
Permission to audit a course must be granted through the department chair over the course.
Students must register for an audit by the registration deadline, and it will appear on the transcript.
Students cannot change from audit to credit, or credit to audit, after the registration deadline.
The cost to audit a course is three-fourths the regular tuition of the course for students registering for 0 - 11 credits.  If a student’s total credits including the credits for the audited course are between 12-19, there is no additional charge. If the student is enrolled in more than 19 credits and a portion of those credits are taken as audit, the student should contact the Student Accounts Office to determine additional tuition charges.
At the completion of the audit, no letter grade is issued, and no graduate credit is awarded.  The tuition rate for audit of graduate level course work is specified in the
Student Financial Services
section of this catalog.
Directed Study
Directed Study provides the opportunity to receive one-on-one course instruction with an MSOE faculty member. Appropriate forms are available, and permission must be obtained from the chairperson of the academic department or school under which the course is taught.
Generally, permission for such registration is granted only if a student is unable to schedule a specific course that is required for graduation and the student is within 16 credits of graduation.
Some courses, due to their nature, are not eligible for Directed Study.
The department chair will determine whether there is a compelling need to run a course as a directed study and, if so, whether there are enough resources available to do so.
Directed Study classes must be scheduled in the normal quarter schedule.
Completed forms must be submitted by the registration deadline, and course work must be complete when the term ends.
Directed Study classes may be dropped in accordance with the published drop deadline for the term.
Undergraduate/Graduate Courses (500/5000-level Courses)
Course numbers starting with “5” are generally open to both undergraduate and graduate students. Students enrolled in the 5xxx section will have different requirements and grading from students enrolled in the 4xxx section.
Undergraduate/graduate courses have a double designation. Students taking them for graduate credit register under the 500-level designation. Those taking them for undergraduate credit, including graduate students fulfilling prerequisite requirements, register under a 400-level designation.
Undergraduates who meet the grade point requirements for graduate study may enroll in 500-level courses and receive graduate credit, so long as they have not already taken the equivalent undergraduate course. Students must obtain the approval of the program director or the chair of the department or school that offers the course.
Graduate Students Taking an Undergraduate Course for Graduate Credit
MSOE recognizes that on occasion a graduate student having a free elective in their graduate program may wish to enroll in an undergraduate course that contains subject matter of particular interest to the student, and to receive graduate credit for so doing. MSOE also recognizes that graduate students need to be held to a higher academic standard than do undergraduate students. The following policy shall therefore be in effect regarding graduate students wishing to receive graduate credit for attending an undergraduate course:
In the quarter preceding the one in which the undergraduate class is offered, the graduate student shall contact their graduate program director and request a graduate independent study form. The student shall then contact the instructor of the undergraduate course in question and will explain their desire to obtain graduate credit for the course. The graduate student will ask the instructor if they are willing to assign and grade an additional project or projects to supplement the standard undergraduate course materials, in order to raise the level of the course to that of a graduate offering. The student also will request permission to attend the lecture and/or lab portions of the course, along with its undergraduate enrollees. If the instructor and the academic chair of the department or school offering the course so agree, then the student will ask the instructor to complete the independent study form, which stipulates all requirements for completing the course for graduate credit. The student should submit the original, signed, independent study form to the registrar. The student will then register for the course just as they would for any graduate independent study course. Upon completion of all stipulated requirements, the instructor will award the student a grade for the course, and the student will receive graduate credit for that course.
The procedure will not apply to courses that already carry an undergraduate/graduate (U/G) designation. Such courses may be taken for graduate credit simply by registering for the appropriate course number, as discussed above.
Students wishing to transfer in course work from another institution for graduate credit may only do so if the course work carries a U/G or G designation, as stated in that institution’s official catalog.
Grading System
MSOE uses the following grading system for graduate-level courses:
Letter Grade
Numerical Equivalent
Interpretation
A
4.00
Excellent
AB
3.50
Above Expectations
B
3.00
Meets Expectations
BC
2.50
Below Expectations
C
2.00
Minimally Acceptable for Graduate Credit
F
0
Failure
W
0
Withdrawal
P
LP
NP
0
0
0
Pass
Low Pass
No Pass
NR
0
No Grade Reported
PIP
0
Project in Progress
S
0
Satisfactory
U
0
Unsatisfactory
Letter grades of A-F that are received for graduate courses completed at MSOE are included in the calculation of the average. To receive the degree, the student must attain a 3.00 cumulative GPA.
A student who enrolls in a section of a capstone, theses, or project but does not complete the requirement before the end of the quarter shall receive a grade of Project in Progress, or PIP. Once the student completes the requirements, the faculty member who assigned the PIP (typically the program director with input from the student’s project advisor) shall send a change-of-grade form to the registrar, who then assigns the final grade. If the PIP grade is not resolved within one calendar year from being first recorded, the PIP grade will change to an unsatisfactory or failing grade for the course (U or F based on the course grading scale).  Conversion to the U or F grade can be delayed by the academic chairperson, if the program director and/or project advisor verifies the student is making suitable progress on the project.
In the event of a significant disruption of academic activities, as declared by the vice president of academics, a temporary, alternative pass/no pass grading scale may be employed. The use of the alternative grading scale must be authorized by the Council for Academic Planning and communicated by the vice president of academics. When in effect, the alternative grading scale must be consistently applied university wide.
“Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a B grade or higher, as B is defined in the standard graduate grading scale
“Low Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a BC or C grade, as they are defined in the standard graduate grading scale
“No Pass” is defined as the equivalent of an F grade, as F is defined in the standard graduate grading scale
Grade Changes
Grade changes must be processed by the end of the quarter following the term when the grade was earned. If an extenuating circumstance exists, the student may appeal the one quarter deadline to the chair of the academic department or school that offers the course.
There are two exceptions to this policy:
An exception is granted for capstone courses that record grades of NR until all of the grades are recorded in the final quarter of the project. For capstone projects, all NR grades must be converted to final grades at the end of the academic year of the project.
An exception is granted for graduate capstone project courses in which a grade of Project in Progress (PIP) is recorded.  If the PIP grade is not changed within one calendar year from being first recorded, the PIP grade will resolve to a grade of Unsatisfactory (U).  The program director can prevent the conversion to the U grade if the project advisor verifies that the student is still making suitable progress on the project.
No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred. After a student’s degree is conferred, the transcript is considered a finalized historical document and cannot be changed.
Incomplete Grades
A letter grade followed by an asterisk is a temporary grade indicating incomplete work. It is the responsibility of the student to make arrangements with the instructor to have the work completed; these arrangements must be initiated within the first two weeks of the following quarter (not including the Summer Quarter). The student must submit the required work to complete the course within the time deadline set by the instructor, but this may not be later than the end of the same quarter. If the student has not completed all work for the course after this period of time, the asterisk will be dropped and the letter grade preceding the asterisk will become the permanent grade. The letter preceding the asterisk represents the grade the student will earn if no additional work is completed. The grade can go up if additional work is completed, but it cannot go down. The letter grade preceding the asterisk is calculated into the student’s GPA. No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred.
An incomplete grade is given at the discretion of the instructor. Incomplete grades are reserved for situations in which a student has done satisfactory work in a course until near the end of the term but, because of extenuating circumstances, the course could not be completed.
Grade Appeals
Students may appeal a final grade they believe was given in error or based on unreasonable departure from previously articulated standards. The student should first contact the instructor assigning the grade and explain why they believe the grade to be in error. If the appeal to the instructor does not lead to resolution, the student may formally appeal the grade in writing to the office of the vice president of academics (VPA). The VPA will convene a meeting of at least 3 additional faculty members to review, discuss, and make a recommendation to the VPA. The committee will consider the student and the faculty arguments and may elect to speak with either or both. The VPA has final authority over the appeal decision.
Any grade change appeal must be in process by the official end of the term following the term in which the grade was earned; if the course is a prerequisite to a next term course and the initial grade submitted was a failing grade, the process must be completed by Friday of the first week of the term.
Grade Replacement
Graduate students are not allowed to repeat a graduate-level course for which a grade has been earned unless given written permission by the program director. When granted permission, graduate students may repeat for grade replacement any graduate-level course for which a letter grade below a B was earned. The grade and credits earned from the second attempt will be used to calculate the student’s GPA. The grade for the first attempt will still appear on the transcript but will be preceded with a “R” indicating that the grade and credits from the first attempt will not be used to calculate the student’s GPA.  Once a degree is conferred, no additional grade replacements will be processed.
Academic Progress Requirements
MSOE expects all students to complete their academic objectives as outlined under the Academic Standing and the Maximum Time Period for Completion sections that follow. In addition, students are expected to follow the prescribed sequence of courses for the degree program selected, observing all course prerequisites and corequisites.
Academic Standing
A graduate student at MSOE is in good academic standing unless the graduate student’s cumulative GPA is less than 3.00 or the student receives a grade of F in any class during the previous academic quarter.
A graduate student not in good academic standing is subject to academic probation or suspension, terms of which are established by the students’ graduate program and administered by its program director.
At a minimum, a graduate student not in good academic standing is placed on academic probation. A student on academic probation, who does not meet the criteria for returning to good academic standing may be subject to suspension.
In cases of academic suspension, a student may appeal to the Graduate Student Advancement Sub-Committee. The sub-committee may recommend academic probation, continued suspension or permanent dismissal from MSOE. Typically, academic suspension is for a period of two academic terms. In order to resume graduate study, a suspended student must petition the Graduate Student Advancement Sub-Committee for lifting of the suspension.
Continuous Registration
Graduate students are required to be continuously registered until graduation after initiation of the master’s project, thesis or other capstone activity. Students who initiated the master’s project, thesis, or other capstone activity and are not registered for three or more graduate credits in a quarter must register for
GC 899
and pay the continuation fee associated with this course. Registration in GC 899 will appear on the student’s transcript as a no-credit course with no effect on the student’s GPA. Students in the Master of Science in Perfusion program are required to be continuously registered for four quarters per academic year after initiation of the master’s thesis. Students in other programs are not required to be registered for the summer quarter.
Maximum Time Period for Completion
A student in the MBA, MBA Education Leadership, MSCVE, MSE, MSEM, MSN, or MSNP has a maximum of seven years from their initial enrollment in a graduate course to complete all degree requirements. A student in the MSP program is expected to complete the program’s requirements at the end of the six consecutive quarters of enrollment, including summer, of their initial matriculation and has a maximum of two years to complete all degree requirements. Any student failing to complete all degree requirements within the deadlines described should consult with their program director and request a time extension.
Students having a valid reason for being unable to meet deadlines established by MSOE for completion of the graduate degree programs (see above for specific time limits) may appeal in writing to the program director for an extension of time of up to one year. The decision of the program director may be appealed to the Graduate Programs Council. An appeal for an extension of more than one year must be approved by the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee.
The written appeal for an extension must explain why the deadline was not or will not be met and propose substitute deadlines. The appeal should be submitted to:
Registrar’s Office
MSOE
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
If the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee grants a time extension, the subcommittee will outline academic requirements the student must meet prior to graduation. These may include additional course requirements, reflecting changes in the degree program or updated content.
Transfer of Graduate Credit
A maximum of nine credit hours (or three MSOE courses, whichever is less), of approved graduate work taken at another institution may be transferred with the consent of the appropriate program director.  Grades for transfer courses are not calculated into the student’s MSOE grade point average.  A course completed at another institution must meet the following conditions to be accepted for credit: (1) it was taken for graduate credit; (2) a grade of “B” or better was earned; and (3) it was taken not earlier than five years prior to the first course in the program; (4) an official transcript from a regionally accredited university must be filed with the Registrar’s Office.
Individuals should request that their program director review their transcripts to evaluate whether any courses are transferable. When possible, the applicant should provide catalog course descriptions and course syllabi to the program director.  Transfer credit will only be granted if the course(s) meet a specific program requirement.
Procedure for Changing Graduate Program
A student wishing to change from one graduate program to another must complete a
Graduate Change of Program Request
form and consult with the director of the program to which the student is applying. The program director will determine if entrance requirements of the new program are met, and if any additional materials are required. At the time the student is accepted into the new program, the student’s previously completed course work will be evaluated to determine which courses will qualify to meet requirements of the new program. Only those courses used to fulfill the program track of the new program will be included in the GPA that is used to determine if the student meets GPA requirements.
Graduation Requirements
Satisfactory completion of all courses listed in the student’s program of study within the maximum time period allowed (unless a time extension has been officially granted).
A cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or higher in graduate course work counted toward the degree.
Degrees are conferred at the end of the Fall, Winter, Spring and Summer Quarters. The official graduation date will be the end of the quarter in which all graduation requirements have been met. Formal ceremonies are conducted at the end of Fall, Winter and Spring Quarters. Students must be scheduled to complete all graduation requirements in the term in which they attend Commencement. An exception will be made for students intending to complete no more than two courses during the summer months; these students may participate in the Spring Commencement. Program directors will verify that students qualify to attend Commencement. Students must apply for graduation in the Registrar’s Office by the dates posted on the
Registrar’s Office
website.
Each student must apply for graduation by completing a Graduation Application Form and submitting it to the Registrar’s Office no later than the end of the seventh week of the quarter preceding the quarter in which the student expects to graduate. Graduation applications are available from the Registrar’s Office or on the Registrar’s Office website.
For those who submit a Graduation Application Form by the above stated deadline, the Registrar’s Office, in conjunction with the program director, will do preliminary graduation checks before the end of the first week of the quarter in which the students plan to graduate, and notify them if additional courses are required.
A student completing graduation requirements by the end of a quarter, but who has not submitted a Graduation Application Form by the above stated deadline, may be allowed to participate in the Commencement exercises with approval of the program director and the Registrar’s Office.
Awarding of Two Master’s Degrees
MSEM or MSNP as a Second Master’s Degree
A student who has earned a MBA, MSCBM, MSEM, MSNP, MSXM, MSE, MSN, MSCVE, MSP, MSAE or MSST degree from MSOE within the last 7 years will be awarded 21 credits towards the pursuit of a second degree, either MSEM or MSNP. The Graduate Program Director will determine what courses (credits and grades) transfer to the second degree.
Students will be required to complete the Capstone for the new degree.
MBA as a Second Master’s Degree
A student who has earned the MSCBM, MSEM, MSNP, MSXM, MSE, MSN, MSCVE, MSP, MSAE or MSST degree from MSOE within the last 7 years will be awarded 21 credits towards the pursuit of the MBA. Students will be required to take 24 credits in the MBA program as follows:
MB 6000
Management Principles
MB 6200
Accounting and Finance
MB 6630
Applied Organizational Behavior
MB 7700
Marketing
MB 7900
Strategy
MB 8100
,
MB 8120
,
MB 8130
, and
MB 8900
Capstone with Integrated Field Project
Students who have completed any of the above courses or equivalents will be required to take elective business courses with the approval of the Graduate Program Director.
Certificates
A student wishing to complete a certificate does so by satisfactory completion of all the requirements stipulated for each certificate. Students must declare their pursuit of a certificate in the Registrar’s Office using the Certificate Completion form. This form must be submitted within one calendar year of completion of final course required for the certificate.
Credits and courses required for a certificate may double count toward meeting MSOE degree requirements; however, a course may count toward no more than one certificate and one degree.
All course requirements for the certificate must be completed in residence.
A minimum grade point average of 3.00 is required for the course work that is counted toward the certificate.
Students may not earn a certificate and degree in the same area of specialization.
There is no limit on the number of certificates a student may earn.
Of the total number of credits required for the certificate, the student must complete at least three credits that are unique to the certificate requirements and are not required for the student’s major or minor fields of study.
There is a maximum of three years from initial enrollment in a certificate course to complete all certificate requirements, if enrolled in certificate program only.
If the certificate is earned concurrently with enrollment in a degree program, the time limit shall be the same as the degree program.
No courses shall be specifically designed exclusively to accommodate a certificate-additional courses that can be used as electives in regular programs may be designed to facilitate a certificate.
Efforts will be made to run sufficient courses for a certificate over a four-year period. There is no guarantee that courses for a certificate will be conveniently scheduled.
There will be no substitutions for the course requirements of a certificate without the appropriate department chair’s written approval.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.