Student Financial Services - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
Research Opportunities
Administration and Board of Regents
Graduate Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
Student Financial Services
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
How to Apply for Aid
Tuition and Fees
Due Dates and Payments
Financial Aid Disbursement
Tuition Refunds
Withdrawal-Return of Financial Aid
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-301
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Email:
payments@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/admissions-aid/tuition-fees
Financial Aid Office
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-301
Phone: (414) 277-7223
Email:
finaid@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office is available to assist graduate students in obtaining financial aid and exploring alternative loan products. We encourage all students to visit the
Financial Aid website
for more detailed information. If you have any questions or want further information, feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at 414-277-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
.
How to Apply for Aid
It is encouraged that all eligible students file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so they can be considered for the maximum amount of aid available. Students will need to create an FSA ID from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to create an FSA ID, please visit
studentaid.gov
. You will need to use this ID to access your student aid dashboard to apply for the FAFSA and view loan history.
Eligibility
Admitted graduate students who are U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens, enrolled at least half-time, maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP), and not in default or do not owe a repayment on any federal aid program may be eligible for non need-based federal student loans. A student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per term to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans. Please visit MSOE’s financial aid website for more information about the types of aid offered.
Please note the non-credit workshops offered through Graduate and Professional Education are not eligible for financial aid. Further note that nondegree and nonmatriculated students are not eligible for financial aid.
Graduate Tuition and Fees (2025-2026 Academic Year)
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition, fees and policies at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Graduate Tuition
Program
Cost per credit hour
Certificate
Cost per credit hour
MBA in Education Leadership
$621
Business for School Leaders
$621
MS in Architectural Engineering
$828
Curriculum & Instruction
$621
MS in Civil Engineering
$828
School Business Managers
$621
MS in Engineering Management
$1,035
Advanced Business Strategy Using AI & Analytics
$1,035
MBA
$1,035
Psych Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
$1,304
MS in Nursing
$1,304
Nursing Executive Leadership & Management
$1,304
MS in Engineering
$1,511
Additive Manufacturing
$1,511
MS in Perfusion
$1,511
Fluid Power
$1,511
MS in Machine Learning
$1,656
Applied Machine Learning
$1,656
Non-degree
$1,656
Machine Learning Engineering
$1,656
Early Entry Master’s Degree Program Charges
Early entry master’s programs offer the ability for MSOE students to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in this program are considered undergraduate students until their undergraduate degree is conferred. Depending on the program, students may take up to 16 graduate-level credits as an undergraduate student, and those credits may apply to both degrees.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into an early entry program are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid until their undergraduate degree is conferred. In the student’s fifth year, they are charged the graduate per credit rate for their program of study.
Fees
Technology Fee
Graduate students will be charged $34 per credit. Graduate students can opt into the laptop rental program and are charged $176 per semester. The technology fee supports information technology, printing services, network usage, distance/digital learning, and other related services.
Enrollment deposit:
$250
The enrollment deposit ensures your place in the program of study and should not be paid unless you have been formally accepted to MSOE. This fee is
nonrefundable
and will be credited to your first-term tuition bill should you choose to attend MSOE.
Parking Permit (per semester)
Viets Field Student Parking:
$324
Grohmann Tower Student Parking:
$350
Motorcycle Parking Permit:
$100
Weekday Parking Permit:
$5 per day
Evening/Weekend Parking:
Free
(must have permit)
Audit Fee
: 75% of the graduate tuition rate
Continuation Fee
(
GRA 6998
): $100
Directed Study Fees:
Directed study fees must be paid in full at the time of registration. This fee is nonrefundable even if directed study is not completed.
Graduate Directed Study Rates:
Program
Cost per credit hour
MBA in Education Leadership
$994
MS in Architectural Engineering
$1,325
MS in Civil Engineering
$1,325
MS in Engineering Management
$1,656
MBA
$1,656
MS in Nursing
$2,086
MS in Engineering
$2,418
MS in Perfusion
$2,418
MS in Machine Learning
$2,650
Non-degree
$2,650
Due Dates and Payments
Semester charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes during the academic year.
Fall 2025 due date:
September 15, 2025
Spring 2026 due date:
February 2, 2026
Summer 2026 semester and subterm tuition due dates will be posted online on the
Graduate Tuition
page.
Student Statements
All registered students receive an email notification to their school email address when their statement is available to view online. MSOE publishes preliminary statements weekly leading up to the start of the semester. Final statements are published to students during week two of each term following the close of registration and financial aid disbursement. Students and authorized third party payers can access statements online through the Transact link found in a student’s
my.msoe.edu
portal. For any student billing questions, please contact the Student Accounts office at (414) 277-7130 or
payments@msoe.edu.
Payment Options
Online through Transact:
Pay with an e-check or a debit/credit card
Link your 529 account and pay (not all 529 plans accepted - see Transact for availability and associated fees)
International Funds Transfer payment through Transact allows students to pay using their home currency (see Transact for availability and associated fees)
Payment Plan:
Student or authorized payers can enroll in a monthly payment plan through Transact. All payment types listed above can be used for the payment plan. Refer to
msoe.edu for enrollment deadlines and payment schedules.
Cash or Check Payments:
Payment with cash or check ONLY can be done at the Student Accounts office, CC-301 Monday through Friday 8:00am-4:30pm or payment can be left in the drop box outside the office for next business day processing.
If mailing a check, please add the student ID number in the memo part of the check. Checks are payable to MSOE, Attn: Student Accounts Office, 1025 N. Broadway, Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109.
Late Payment Charge
If payment is not received by the statement due date, and a student is not enrolled and current on the monthly payment plan, a finance charge may accrue at a rate of one percent per month (12 percent A.P.R) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a finance charge on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file with the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a finance charge on those charges covered by a company or agency. Any charges not covered by a student’s sponsor will be subject to a finance charge.
Financial Hold
MSOE will place a financial hold on accounts that are not paid in full or in good standing on a payment plan. This financial hold will prevent registration for subsequent terms until the balance is paid.
A financial hold will be placed on a student’s account if they have a past due balance for the summer term. This hold will remain on the account until the summer balance is paid in full. Past due summer balances, if not cleared prior to the fall registration deadline (Friday of Week 1), may result in a student’s fall registration being canceled. Students who have their fall registration revoked due to a financial hold are not guaranteed to be able to enroll in their original fall courses.
In the event that a student becomes delinquent on a semester payment plan after they have registered for the subsequent term, their registration for the subsequent term is subject to cancellation by the Registrar’s Office. The student cannot re-register for the subsequent term until the balance is paid in full and the payment is verified by MSOE’s bank. This verification process takes 5 business days. The past due balance must be resolved and the student must be registered prior to the close of registration for the subsequent term.
Returned Payments
Checks or electronic payments received towards tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Raider Shop, which are returned by the bank will result in a charge of an additional $30 returned payment fee. Some examples of why a payment would be returned are: “Non-Sufficient Funds,” “Payment Stopped,” “Unable to locate,” or “Account Closed.” If two payments are returned from the bank, the student may be required to use a different method of payment in the future.
If a returned payment causes a past due balance for a previous term, enrollment for the subsequent term is subject to cancellation by the Registrar’s Office until the previous term is paid in full and the payment is verified by MSOE’s bank. This verification process takes 5 business days. The past due balance must be resolved and the student must be registered prior to the close of registration for the subsequent term.
Financial Aid Disbursement
Scholarship, grant, and loan funds are usually divided equally between the terms. Students must complete all required promissory notes, entrance counseling, and verification documents and have registered for classes before financial aid can be credited to the student’s account. Students must be enrolled at least half-time to receive federal student loans. If the student has any other grant or scholarship aid, they must be meeting the terms and conditions of the aid in order for the aid to be disbursed. All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
All processed financial aid will transfer to the student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward. A credit balance refund will be processed if the sum of financial aid posted to the student account including
federal Title IV funds (see definition below)
exceeds the sum of
allowable charges (see definition below)
. MSOE will refund any excess funds within 14 days after the disbursement is posted to the student account. Students should elect to have refunds directly deposited into a checking or savings account to receive their refunds faster. If they are not enrolled in direct deposit, a check will be mailed to the current address on file with the university.
To prevent any outstanding balance because of non-allowable charges, students can complete the Credit Balance Authorization Form. This authorization will allow MSOE to apply the amount of financial aid including federal Title IV funds that exceed the allowable charges to cover all non-allowable charges (such as parking, MSOE Raider Shop supplies, Inclusive Access, lab parts, etc.) to the student account.
Students also have the option to hold any credit balance refund on their student account to cover future term expenses.  The funds will be held on your student account through the end of the academic year or earlier if the student does not plan to attend MSOE for the full academic year.  To hold your credit balance refund, please complete the Credit Balance Authorization Form.
Federal Title IV Funds and Allowable Charges Definitions
Federal regulations require MSOE to only apply financial aid funds including federal Title IV funds to certain allowable charges. Below are listed what is considered Federal Title IV funds and allowable charges.
Federal Title IV funds include:
Unsubsidized Loans Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
Allowable charges include only the following:
Tuition
Mandatory Fees (Technology and Student Support Services Fees)
Housing and meals, if contracted with MSOE
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge book purchases made at the MSOE Raider Shop to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly statement. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the MSOE Raider Shop when purchasing their textbooks. Students are able to charge their books to their student account during the three weeks before the term begins through the second Tuesday of the term. Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Inclusive Access is a distribution system wherein students are automatically given the course materials electronically when enrolled in a course in which the faculty member has selected to use this type of digital format. Students will be billed automatically through their student account unless they choose to opt out online by 4pm on Friday of the first week of classes. For additional information please contact the MSOE Raider Shop at
www.bookstore.msoe.edu
,
bookstore@msoe.edu
or (414)277-7173.
Tuition Refunds
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office in the first five weeks of a semester or first three weeks of a subterm.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Withdrawal from MSOE
Tuition refunds will only be granted to students who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Academic Year: Full Semester Courses
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% tuition refund
During the first week of the semester: 100% tuition refund
During the second week of the semester: 80% tuition refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the semester: 60% tuition refund, owe 40%
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% tuition refund, owe 60%
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% tuition refund, owe 80%
After the fifth week of semester: No refund will be granted
No tuition refunds will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the term.
Academic Year: 8-Week Subterm Courses
Prior to the start of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the first week of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the second week of the subterm: 60% tuition refund, owe 40%
During the third week of the subterm: 40% tuition refund, owe 60%
After the third week of subterm: No refund will be granted
No tuition refunds will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the term.
Summer Subterms:
Prior to the start of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the first week of the subterm: 100% tuition refund
During the second week of the subterm: 60% tuition refund, owe 40%
During the third week of the subterm: 40% tuition refund, owe 60%
After the third week of subterm: No refund will be granted
No tuition refunds will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the term.
Withdrawal-Return of Financial Aid
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
Federal Regulation 34 CFR 668.22 specifies how a school must determine the amount of Title IV program assistance you earn if you withdraw from school. The Title IV programs offered by the university that are covered by this law are as follows: Federal Pell Grants, Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants, Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, and Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOG).
Though your aid is posted to your account at the beginning of each term, you earn the funds as you complete the term. If you withdraw from all classes during your period of enrollment, you may have only earned a portion of your Title IV Aid. The amount of aid earned is determined by a specific formula, and if you received more assistance than you earned, the excess funds must be returned by the school.
The amount of aid earned is determined on a pro rata basis. For example, if you completed 30% of your period of enrollment, you earned 30% of the assistance you were scheduled to receive. Once you have completed more than 60% of a period of enrollment, you will have earned all your financial aid.
Types of Withdrawals
Official Withdrawals:
The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
Unofficial Withdrawals:
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed any academically related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the term as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that they completed the term or attended at a later date than the midpoint of the term.
Steps of Return to Title IV:
The “Return to Title IV” calculation involves several steps. Below is the pertinent information involved in the calculation:
The school determines the amount of Title IV financial aid that has been disbursed to your account versus the amount of Title IV financial aid that could have been disbursed to your account. In most cases, the full amount of aid will have been disbursed. In the instance that your aid has not been disbursed you may be eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement.
The school determines the amount of time you attended versus the total days in the term. Breaks of five or more days during the term are removed from the total days. The calculation is represented as a percentage of aid the student has earned.
The school multiplies the percentage of aid earned by the total amount of disbursed aid and aid that could have disbursed. This is the amount of aid the student has earned.
The school takes the amount of aid the student has earned and subtracts it from the total aid disbursed for the student. This is the amount of aid the student has not earned.
Any funds not earned will be returned no later than 45 days from the determination of a student’s withdrawal in the in the following order:
Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
6. If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the term, a bill will be mailed to the student for any balance due after the return of financial aid funds.
Post-Withdrawal Disbursements:
Students who received less federal financial aid than they earned based on the calculation above, may be eligible to receive a post-withdrawal disbursement. The MSOE Financial Aid Office will inform that student in writing that they are eligible for that disbursement prior to making any post-withdrawal disbursement. Any student who is contacted by the MSOE Financial Aid Office will have 14 days from the date of the notification to confirm that they would like to accept all or a portion of the funds available. Federal loans that were awarded and accepted by the student but not originated with the Department of Education are not eligible for a post-withdrawal disbursement.
Return of Institutional Funds Policy
If a recipient of MSOE scholarship or grants officially withdraws before 4:30 p.m. Friday of week five, MSOE will calculate the amount of institutional aid the student earned and return the unearned aid back to the university. The amount of aid earned is based on the withdrawal date and matches the tuition refund policy above.
Prior to the start of the semester: 100% of institutional funds returned
During the first week of the semester: 100% of institutional funds returned
During the second week of the semester: 80% of institutional funds returned
During the third week of the semester: 60% of institutional funds returned
During the fourth week of the semester: 40% of institutional funds returned
During the fifth week of the semester: 20% of institutional funds returned
After the fifth week of the semester: No institutional funds returned
Seeking Additional Help on the Impact of Withdrawing on Financial Aid
If you need to withdraw from all of your classes, you are encouraged to speak to a financial aid counselor before doing so to determine how it may affect your financial aid. If you have any questions about your Title IV program funds, you can call the Federal Student Aid Information Center at 1-800-4-FEDAID (1-800-433-3243). TTY users may call 1-800-730-8913. Information is also available on Student Aid on the Web at:
https://studentaid.gov.
Tuition Appeal Policy
Tuition appeal provides the opportunity for a student to request an exception to MSOE’s Student Financial Agreement.
The following conditions must be met in order for a tuition appeal to be considered:
A student may submit an appeal within one year from the term they intend to appeal.
Tuition appeal form must be completed with supporting documentation
The following circumstances will be reviewed and considered by the Tuition Variance Committee:
Medical emergency
Immediate family emergency
Military deployment
Significant physical and/or mental illness, excluding conditions or illnesses known to the student at the time of enrollment.
The following circumstances will not be reviewed and considered by the Tuition Variance Committee:
Unawareness and/or loss of Financial Aid eligibility
Unawareness of student communication and lack of use of MSOE email
Lack of knowledge of university deadlines, policies, and procedures
Errors in personal judgment involving work/school/life balance, finances, grades or time management.
More details and the tuition appeal student form can be found on a student’s myMSOE portal under Student Account Forms.
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for MSOE Financial Aid Recipients
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete both 1.) A minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) and 2.) Maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Qualitative Component
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed to ensure the student will be meeting requirements to obtain a degree.
Students are monitored at the end of each academic term, including summer. Students who have not maintained a 3.0 CGPA at the time of review will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 3.0 CGPA by the end of the warning term.
If the student reestablishes a 3.0 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 3.0 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance. Students can appeal their suspension. Please see the appeal section below.
Quantitative Component
Students must successfully complete at least 67% of cumulative credits attempted. The percentage is calculated by dividing successfully completed credits (passing grades and transfer credit) by attempted credits.  Attempted credits include successfully completed credits, earned F’s, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.  67% completion percentage is required in order to assure that students can obtain a degree in the maximum time frame allowed. Please review the maximum time frame section for more information.
Students are monitored at the end of each academic term, including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage by the end of the warning term.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance. Students can appeal their suspension. Please see the appeal section below.
Grading Scale
MSOE’s grading scale consists of passing and non-passing grades, in which the Financial Aid SAP policy is based.
Passing Grades
consist of the following: A, AB, B, BC, C, S, P, LP
Non-Passing Grades
consist of the following: F, F*, NP, U, W, NR, PIP
In the event of a significant disruption of academic activities, as declared by the Executive Vice President of Academics, a temporary, alternative pass/no pass grading scale may be employed. The use of the alternative grading scale must be authorized by the Council for Academic Planning and communicated by the Executive Vice President of Academics. When in effect, the alternative grading scale must be consistently applied university wide.
“Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a B grade or higher, as B is defined in the standard graduate grading scale.
“Low Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a BC or C grade, as they are defined in the standard graduate grading scale.
“No Pass” is defined as the equivalent of an F grade, as F is defined in the standard graduate grading scale.
Students who have a grade change from a non-passing grade to a passing grade can request a re-evaluation of their SAP standing. Students seeking this option must submit an updated unofficial transcript to the MSOE Financial Aid Office with the re-evaluation request. Please allow 1-2 weeks for processing. Students who have changed majors will have the option to have courses that do not meet academic requirements for the new major removed or “pounded out.”  Students with this type of change to their transcript may request a re-evaluation from the Financial Aid Office.
Appeals
If a student is placed on financial aid suspension, they may appeal their suspension. Students are notified of their suspension status via email to their MSOE email address. Included in this notification are instructions on where to find the appeal form and the deadline based on the academic term. Appeals must be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office by 4:30 p.m. of Friday of the fifth week of classes of the suspension term. A committee reviews the appeals, and the student will be notified of the decision via email to their MSOE email address.
Students may file an appeal for the following reasons: death of a relative, personal injury or illness, or other extenuating circumstances that the student can document. Students must indicate why they failed to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress and what has changed in their situation to allow the student to meet the requirements. Students must also provide documentation of their extenuating circumstance along with the written appeal. Incomplete appeals will not be accepted.
The Financial Aid Office will present this information to a committee, which may consist of members from the Financial Aid Office, Academics, Registrar’s Office, and Raider Center for Academic Success. This committee will be responsible for reviewing the appeals to determine the next appropriate action. Students will be notified in writing of the decision within two weeks from the date that the appeal was received.
Students are limited to two suspension appeals to the Financial Aid Office while attending MSOE. Students will also have a one-time opportunity to appeal to the Executive Vice President of Academics in the event of a) a third appeal request OR b) an appeal denial from the Financial Aid Office (first or second appeal). Once an appeal is made to the Executive Vice President of Academics, no further appeals will be allowed.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved may be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance.  While on financial aid probation, the student must reestablish a 3.00 CGPA and/or reestablish 67% completion rate of cumulative credits attempted.  If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan may be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
Students whose appeals have been approved may have to complete an MSOE Financial Aid Plan Agreement if it is determined by the Financial Aid Office that they cannot reestablish a 3.00 CGPA and/or reestablish 67% completion rate of cumulative credits attempted within one term of study. The academic plan will be developed on an individual basis and may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, meetings with a counselor and the Raider Center for Academic Success. The plan must be signed by both the student and a Raider Center for Academic Success staff member and returned to the Financial Aid Office by the due date specified on the plan agreement. Failure to submit a signed plan by the due date results in suspension of financial aid for the term. Academic plans are drafted for the fall and spring terms. Students who enroll in the summer term will have an updated plan that includes enrollment in this term. Students should notify the Financial Aid Office if they enroll in the summer term while on an academic plan.
Denial of Appeal
Students whose financial aid suspension appeal is denied will have a one-time opportunity to forward their appeal to the Executive Vice President of Academics for review. Once an appeal is made to the vice president of academics, no further appeals will be allowed. Students whose appeal is denied by the Executive Vice President of Academics or students who decide not to forward their appeal will need to find sources of funding other than federal, state, or MSOE financial aid to cover the costs of the term.
MSOE Financial aid Office will review students’ cumulative grade point average and percent of successfully completed credits each term. Once they have reached a 3.00 CGPA and/or completion rate of at least 67% of cumulative credits attempted, their financial aid will be reinstated. Students who are unable to meet the requirements after one term on financial aid suspension, will have the opportunity to appeal their suspension again unless they have appealed twice previously or their financial aid suspension appeal was previously forwarded to the vice president of academics.
Maximum Time Frame
Students must complete their degree program within 150% of the published length of their degree program.  The following below will be considered when calculating the maximum time frame:
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Students who repeat a course will have both the initial and subsequent course(s) count toward completion of published length of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Remedial courses that are required for the completion of the degree program are counted as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Courses where a student withdraws are also included in the maximum time frame calculation as attempted credits only and will be counted toward completion of published length of the degree program.
Courses in terms where students are not receiving financial aid will also be calculated as part of the maximum time frame calculation for financial aid purposes.
Students who change majors must submit a Change of Program form with MSOE’s Registrar’s Office. When submitting the form, students will have the option to have all courses that do not meet academic requirements for the new major removed (pounded out). If students choose this option, courses removed will not be considered in the maximum time frame calculation and will not count towards the CGPA calculation.
When calculating the maximum time frame for students enrolled in two degree programs, the calculation will be based on 150% of the total credits needed to complete the longest of the two programs.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.