Academic Regulations and Policies - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
University Scholars Honors Program
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
English as a Second Language
Course Descriptions
Administration, Board of Regents, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Academic Regulations and Policies
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Policy on Student Integrity
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
Research with Human Participants
General Academic Policies
Registration and Course-Related Policies
Grades and Grading
Dean’s List, Honor’s List, Probation, Suspension
Graduation Requirements and Procedures
Minors
Certificates
Office of Academics
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-420
Phone: (414) 277-7190
The regulations and policies of MSOE include only those that are necessary to the proper organization and operation of the university. MSOE reserves the right to change the rules governing admission, tuition and the granting of degrees, or any other regulation affecting its students. Such changes shall take effect whenever the administration deems it necessary. MSOE also reserves the right to exclude, at any time, students whose conduct or standing is regarded as undesirable.
Policy on Student Integrity
As an institution of higher learning, MSOE is committed above all to the educational development of its students as responsible and principled human beings. As such, MSOE is accountable to all whom it serves and by whom it is scrutinized. The university has a priority interest in promoting personal integrity and in ensuring the authenticity of its graduates’ credentials.
The university is similarly mindful that the professions, business and industry are concerned with ethical behavior no less than the professional practice of their members and employees. Therefore, MSOE students preparing for professional careers and leadership roles that are founded on responsibility and trust, must observe and be guided by the highest standards of personal integrity both in and out of the classroom.
The expectations of the university with respect to academic and classroom integrity are reflected in, but not limited to, the following guidelines:
Each student must recognize that even a poorly developed piece of work that represents his or her best efforts is far more worthwhile than the most outstanding piece of work taken from someone else.
Students must observe the rules established by a faculty member for a particular course.
Assignments prepared outside of class must include appropriate documentation of all borrowed ideas and expressions. The absence of such documentation constitutes “plagiarism,” which is the knowing or negligent use of the ideas, expressions or work of another with intent to pass such materials off as one’s own. It is an act of plagiarism if a student purchases a paper or submits a paper, computer program, or drawing claiming it to be his/hers when he/she did not write it.
Each student should consistently prepare for examinations so as to reduce temptation toward dishonesty.
A student may not share examination answers with others for the purpose of cheating, nor should he or she, intentionally or through carelessness, give them an opportunity to obtain the same.
Academic dishonesty or cheating includes the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for academic work through the use of any dishonest, deceptive or fraudulent means. Cheating at MSOE includes but is not limited to:
Copying, in part or in whole, from another’s test or homework assignments, worksheets, lab reports, essays, summaries, quizzes, etc.
Copying examinations and quizzes, in whole or in part, unless approved by the instructor.
Submitting work previously graded in another course unless this has been approved by the course instructor or by departmental policy.
Submitting work simultaneously presented in two courses, unless this has been approved by both course instructors or by the department policies of both departments.
Communicating electronically (unless approved by the instructor) during examinations with the intent to seek or provide answers.
Attempting to present as the student’s own work, materials or papers purchased or downloaded from the Internet.
Violating discipline specific health, safety or ethical requirements to gain any unfair advantage in lab(s) or clinical assignments
Any other act committed that defrauds or misrepresents, including aiding or abetting in any of the actions defined above.
Claiming credit for a group project or paper when the individual student made little or no contribution to the group’s product.
Accessing reference documents during an exam or quiz unless approved by the course instructor.
A student of integrity will not support, encourage or protect others who are involved in academic dishonesty in any way, and will furthermore attempt to dissuade another student from engaging in dishonest acts.
A student who acts without integrity in an academic setting shall be subject to sanctions. Sanctions are at the discretion of the instructor and may take one of many forms. Example sanctions include written reprimand, penalty on an assignment or exam, or “F” grade for the assignment, exam or course. If the instructor assigns an “F” for the course, the student will not be allowed to drop the course. If the student believes the sanction was unwarranted, they have the right to appeal following established procedures. All breaches of academic integrity will be reported to the vice president of academics using the required form. Upon recommendation of the instructor or at his or her initiation, the vice president of academics may decide that repeated or extremely serious acts of dishonesty may be grounds for more severe disciplinary action. Such cases will be referred to the dean of students per section 18 of the
MSOE Student Conduct Code
.
Process for Adjudicating Isolated Breaches of Academic Integrity
The student will be notified by the faculty member either within three academic working days of the faculty member’s awareness of the problem or at the next class session attended by the student. The faculty member will notify the student using the “Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form”. The student will have three academic working days to communicate to the faculty member any disagreement of information reported in the notification. The faculty member may elect to make modifications to the form, or retract it, in response to this communication. The final version of the form will be sent to the chair of the academic department or school and the vice president of academics. The vice president of academics will retain all such reports in a file and may refer egregious behavior or repeated reports involving the same student to the dean of students as described in the Student Conduct Code. Any referral will only occur after the completion of the appeal process described in this section.
The following procedure will be used if a student wishes to appeal a faculty member’s judgment that academic integrity was breached. Filing appeals in accordance with these provisions shall not suspend the sanction declared in the case by the faculty member. The student will remain in class during the entire appeal process.
The student will have three academic working days after delivery of the written notification to initiate an appeal to the chairperson of the academic department or school in which the faculty member serves. The student will be deemed to have waived his/her right to appeal unless he/she files the appeal with the academic chair within these three academic working days. The statement of appeal must specify the reasons countering the faculty member’s determination that the student acted without integrity
The academic chair will have three academic working days in which to review the appeal. The purpose of the academic chair’s review is to determine if sufficient evidence exists that the student did not act with integrity. The chairperson must inform the student and faculty member of his/her judgment within those three academic working days. If the academic chair finds in favor of the student, the sanction and the Breach of Academic Integrity Reporting Form filed with the vice president of academics will be retracted, unless an additional appeal is made by the faculty member.
The student or faculty member may further appeal, in writing to the vice president of academics, the decision of the academic chair.  This appeal must occur within three academic working days.
The vice president of academics has the final say in determining if a student did not act with integrity. To aid in this process, the vice president of academics may elect to convene an academic review board to hear the appeal. If so, the academic review board will consider the written appeal and shall allow both the student and faculty member to appear in person before the committee. The academic review board is expected to provide an opinion to the vice president of academics within three academic working days from the commencement of its proceedings. If the final determination is that academic integrity was not breached, all forms will be retracted.
The student may bring a representative to any meeting established under this procedure. The faculty member may also have representation at any meeting.
Process for Adjudicating Egregious or Repeated Breaches of Academic Integrity
Upon receipt of report of egregious or repeated notifications for breaches of academic integrity that are upheld throughout the appeal process, the vice president of academics may elect to refer students to the dean of students for action under section 18 of the Student Conduct Code.
Student Complaint Policy and Procedures
The Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) seeks to respond to, and to resolve in a timely manner, all complaints by currently enrolled students. A complaint is a written expression of dissatisfaction or formal allegation against the university, its units, its employees (including faculty and staff), and/or its students. The process to appeal an assigned grade for a course is outlined later in the section titled “Grade Appeals.”
Currently enrolled students who have a complaint first should try to work out the problem by discussing it in a factual and professional manner with those persons most involved with the issue. Many complaints can be resolved when a student makes an effort to honestly communicate his/her frustrations or concerns. If a student has a complaint related to a specific course in which he or she is enrolled, the student should first consult with the instructor of the course. If necessary, the instructor will consult the academic chair responsible for the course regarding guidance on how to best resolve the student’s concern. For all other campus complaints (academic and non-academic) that the student cannot resolve informally with the parties involved, the student should follow the
Student Complaint Process
. The process includes the instructions, timelines and official complaint form.
Types of Complaints EXCLUDED from this Reporting Procedure
Student complaints concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct are excluded from this student complaint reporting procedure. Instead, the student complaint procedure concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct is addressed in the MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy. Students who are victims of sexual misconduct have the right to report the incident in a confidential manner. For more information concerning sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, or for details on how to report sexual harassment or a sexual misconduct incident in a confidential manner, please refer to the
MSOE Sexual Misconduct Policy
. Students who wish to file an official report with MSOE concerning an incident involving sexual harassment or sexual misconduct should report directly to the MSOE Title IX Coordinator, Kip Kussman (414) 277-7225,
kussman@msoe.edu
or to the MSOE Title IX Deputy Coordinator Gary Shimek (414) 277-7181,
shimek@msoe.edu
.
Research with Human Participants
MSOE’s Institutional Review Board (MSOE IRB) is an administrative body established to protect the rights and well-being of human subjects recruited to participate in research activities.  MSOE IRB has jurisdiction over human subject research activities conducted at MSOE, human subject research activities conducted by MSOE employees, students, or agents at any location, and human subject research activities that use MSOE resources.   All students, staff, and faculty at MSOE planning to conduct research involving human participants must submit an IRB protocol application package for review by MSOE IRB including proof of relevant training certification.  Investigators must obtain written approval from MSOE IRB before human subject recruitment and research may begin.
In accordance with regulatory standards, MSOE IRB is comprised of qualified board members that include one non-scientist and one community representative.   MSOE’s vice president of academics serves as the institutional official for MSOE IRB.  Human subject researchers (e.g. investigators) at MSOE comply with requirements set forth in the code of Federal Regulations known as the “Common Rule” as well as Wisconsin State laws and MSOE policies.  Investigators intending to recruit study participants from locations outside of the United States must first secure written approval from MSOE IRB prior to contacting research officials in other countries.
The purpose of IRB oversight is to ensure adequacy of the research plan, to minimize risks, and to maximize benefits for human subjects who participate in research activities.  If the investigator is a student, the research must be performed under supervision of an MSOE faculty or staff member who, by his or her signature, assumes responsibility for the conduct of the research with respect to proper safeguards of the rights of human subjects (participants).
MSOE IRB approval is required before human subject research is undertaken by students for classroom work, independent study, senior design, nursing professional practice projects, surveys, master’s degree theses, or any purpose not specifically listed.  This includes research with human subjects (participants) conducted for non-academic purposes, as well.  Data collection by students or faculty/staff for assessment purposes only does not need MSOE IRB approval.  Proposals for research projects conducted as classroom activities need to be submitted to the MSOE IRB if the intention is to share results of the project in a public forum or through publication.  Class projects in which results will only be presented to students enrolled in the course and instructor(s) assigned to the course do not need IRB approval.  It is the instructor’s responsibility to ensure that there are minimal risks for both the student researchers and their participants.  If the instructor assumes that the project could lead to further presentation of results, either through publication or public forum, those projects will need to be reviewed by the IRB prior to the activity. Results of classroom activities cannot be presented outside of the classroom without IRB approval; retroactive IRB approval is never granted. For further information, please see the IRB Guidelines at
https://libguides.msoe.edu/irb
.
Registrar’s Office
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-365
Phone: (414) 277-7215
Website:
https://www.msoe.edu/academics/departments/registrar/
Student Responsibility
Students at MSOE are aided in their academic pursuits by various individuals and groups including faculty, academic advisors, support advisors, program directors and the Registrar’s Office staff. However, each student is ultimately responsible for knowing and complying with MSOE’s academic policies, procedures and deadlines. Each student is responsible for meeting all course, credit and grade point average requirements for graduation with his or her chosen degree.
Furthermore, the majority of communication from MSOE to students, along with interaction with various procedures, occurs electronically.  Students are responsible for regularly checking their MSOE assigned accounts, for responding to official communication as specified, and for resolving any access issues with MSOE’s Information Technology Department.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
MSOE is in compliance with the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974
, the purpose of which is to let the student know what educational records are kept by the university, to give the student the right to inspect such records and to ask for correction if necessary, and to control the release of such information to those who are not involved in the educational process. Under the Privacy Act, certain directory information can be made available to anyone who requests it unless the student specifically asks, in writing, that this not be done. The following is information that MSOE considers to be directory information: name, address, telephone number, email address, program, grade level, dates of attendance, enrollment status (full-time, part-time, withdrawn, not enrolled), degrees and honors received, participation in officially recognized sports and activities, previously attended institutions, class schedule, photographic, video, or electronic images, and program and promotion materials for university-related activities such as athletics, extra-curricular activities and academic competitions.
Class Standing
Undergraduate students are classified by the number of credits earned as follows:
Freshman
0-39
Sophomore
40-87
Junior
88-135
Senior
136 credits or more
Credit Hour Definition
MSOE defines an academic credit hour as a minimum of one hour spent in class each week for lecture-based courses, or as a minimum of two hours spent each week in the laboratory or clinical component of a course.
For each academic credit hour, MSOE further expects that a typical undergraduate student will spend two hours outside of class preparing for and studying for the class. Time spent outside of class for a typical graduate student is expected to exceed two hours per credit hour.
For courses featuring alternative delivery methods (e.g. blended Internet), parity tables are maintained that document how expected class contact time is accounted for in the alternative method. Parity tables are developed by and available from the academic department or school offering the course.
Attendance Policy
MSOE expects all students to attend regularly and promptly all lectures, laboratories and other sessions of courses for which they are registered. It is the student’s responsibility to add and drop classes from his or her academic schedule.
Faculty have the option of developing a policy concerning grade reduction or dropping students for excessive absence from class. Any policy of this nature must be announced to the students during the first week of class and must be made available in writing upon request. A student dropped under such a policy must obtain written permission from the instructor to re-enter the class. The instructor must inform the Registrar’s Office if any student is readmitted to class.
While emphasizing that it is each student’s responsibility to balance academic coursework and extra-curricular endeavors, MSOE administration and faculty recognize the commitment of students to MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular activities and seek to facilitate their participation in intercollegiate events and military service. MSOE-sanctioned extra-curricular endeavors include varsity athletic competitions, academic conferences, intercollegiate competitions, and military service. The student affected will personally notify his/her instructor no less than two (2) weeks in advance of any class or laboratory session that may be missed, and the student will request arrangements for making up missed academic work.  Some events are scheduled without two weeks advanced notice, such as rescheduled events for weather and final tournaments, however, students will do their best to provide two-week notice for the possibility of these events and continue to keep their instructors informed of changes. For academic work (e.g. quizzes, tests, presentations, labs, clinicals, etc.), an instructor will give the student a comparable alternate assignment or require the student to complete the work at an alternate time and/or date. If the instructor considers it unfeasible to grant a student’s request for accommodation, the rationale for denial must be communicated in writing to the student in question and the faculty member’s academic chair within 48 hours. If the extra-curricular activity is an athletic competition, the rationale must also be communicated with the faculty athletic representative. If military service causes the missed academic work, the rationale for denial must also be communicated with the dean of students. The academic chair will then communicate to the aforementioned parties his/her decision on whether the student is entitled to the requested accommodation. Following the academic chair’s decision, students or instructors may send appeals to the vice president of academics for a final decision.
Student Accessibility and Accommodations
MSOE is committed to making its curriculum academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions, and mental health conditions, as well as to students who become temporarily disabled due to mental and physical health concerns (inclusive of injury and concussion), in line with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Accommodations can be made for qualified individuals and are designed to create equal educational access for students without compromising the essential elements of our curriculum. Eligibility for accommodations is done on an individual basis determined by student need. Students are required to submit verification documentation prior to receiving accommodations through
Student Accessibility Services
.
Final Exam Policy
A final examination is required in every credit course except in courses designated by the various departments, and that exam will be administered in the two-hour block designated. The type of examination should be in agreement with that specified in the departmental course outline and announced to the class near the beginning of the quarter. Undergraduate final examinations may not count for more than 40 percent of the final grade.
The final examination period will be Monday through Friday of the eleventh week during the Fall, Winter and Spring Quarters. Day class exams will be held between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Night class exams will be held on a day the class usually meets between 5:30 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at a time somewhat similar to the time the class usually meets. In the case of graduate courses that meet one evening per week, the final exam will be held on the same day as the class meets and will start at the same time as the class starts. Exams for classes meeting only on Saturday will be held on Saturday of the eleventh week. Exams for summer classes will be scheduled by the teacher. If an unavoidable conflict exists, the student will contact all teachers for resolution of the conflict. The chairpersons of the academic departments or schools will ultimately resolve conflicts. If a student has more than two final examinations scheduled on one day, the student is encouraged to petition individual teachers to see if an accommodation can be made. All written, in-class final examinations should follow the examination schedule available on the Registrar’s Office website.
No classes will be held during the exam week. Voluntary (optional) class review sessions may be held. If local or national emergencies prevent the university from being open on one or more days of exam week, the exams on those days will be cancelled. Individual faculty members may give an exam if a student requests it. The exam would be given at a time arranged by the faculty member but within the next quarter, and a change of grade submitted.
Enrollment Status
A student’s quarterly enrollment status is established at the close of business on Friday of the first week of the quarter. There are some circumstances where a student must maintain full-time status throughout the term (for example, athletic eligibility, international student visa status, insurance verification).  An undergraduate student taking 12 or more credits is considered a full-time student. Students registered for less than 12 credits will have their veteran’s benefits and financial aid award reduced.  If a student never attends a class on his or her schedule, the class will be deleted from the student’s record and the enrollment status will be adjusted accordingly.
Financial aid recipients must meet criteria outlined in the “
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for Financial Aid Recipients
” section of this catalog to remain eligible for financial aid.
Policy on Study Abroad
Students wishing to engage in study abroad under programs arranged by MSOE are subject to the following:
Student applicants may not be on probation at the time of application or at the end of the quarter prior to scheduled departure. Departments have authority to set application deadlines and any appeals are to be decided by academic chairs.
Student applicants must sign a statement of understanding that, during their period of study abroad, they remain bound by the policies and regulations set forth in the
MSOE Student Conduct Code
.
Student applicants must meet program-specific curriculum requirements (e.g. prerequisite courses) to participate in the planned activities abroad.
Academic departments have authority to set program-specific minimum academic requirements (e.g., meet minimum cum GPA or major GPA levels, complete an interview process).
Credit by Examination
Credit by Examination is available upon recommendation of the appropriate academic chairperson or his/her designee. The student must have completed approximately 80 percent of the course material in a learning environment, or 60 percent of the course material plus have appropriate work experience in the same content area. Exams are not given on the basis of work experience alone. An exam can be taken only once. Credits earned by exam are not considered credits earned in residence at MSOE.
Typically, students who meet the below criteria are not eligible for Credit by Examination unless the student has taken additional course work or has had additional work experience that relates to the course content:
The student has earned a non-transferable grade less than a C in an equivalent course at another university
The student has dropped or failed the class at MSOE
Credit by Examination Procedure
The student must contact the academic chairperson in the area in which he or she would like to take an examination to determine if the student has sufficient background to be eligible for an exam of this nature. The student must provide any available documentation of course work completed in this content area to the chairperson at this time (transcripts, course description, syllabi, etc.).
The chairperson is responsible for selecting the instructor who will administer the exam.
The instructor should review the course outline and the general content of the examination with the student in advance of the examination date.
The non-refundable exam fee must be paid to the Student Accounts Office prior to taking the examination. The Student Accounts Office will then sign the appropriate section of the approval form indicating that the fee has been paid.
Once the exam is completed, the instructor will complete the Credit by Examination form with the appropriate grade and submit it to the chairperson within seven days after student takes the exam. The final grade must be 77 or above for credit to be awarded.
The academic chair will complete the form and forward it to the registrar for processing.
Students may also participate in the Advanced Placement Program (AP) or College Level Examination Program (CLEP) sponsored by the College Board or the International Baccalaureate Program (IB). Incoming students should call the Enrollment Management Department to see which courses would qualify for advanced placement at MSOE and what scores are required to receive credit.
Credit by Evaluation
While most external credit is granted via transfer credit or credit by exam, there are a small number of circumstances that are best evaluated by some other type of evaluation.  Credit by Evaluation is available upon recommendation of the appropriate academic chairperson. The student must have completed approximately 80 percent of the course material in a learning environment, or 60 percent of the course material plus have appropriate work experience in the same content area. Credit is not evaluated on the basis of work experience alone. Credits earned by evaluation are not considered credits earned in residence at MSOE.
Students who meet the below criteria are not eligible for Credit by Evaluation:
The student has dropped or failed the class at MSOE.
The student has earned a non-transferable grade less than a C in an equivalent course at another university.
Credit by Evaluation Procedures
The student must contact the academic chairperson in the area in which he or she would like work evaluated to determine if the student has sufficient background for pursuing credit by evaluation.  The student should provide any available documentation of course work completed in this content area to the chairperson at this time (transcripts, certificates, syllabi, course descriptions, etc.)
The chairperson is responsible for selecting the instructor who will evaluate the work and the method that will be used for evaluation.  The instructor will submit an evaluation rubric and grading scale for approval by the chairperson.  The evaluation rubric will clearly demonstrate how the course learning outcomes will be evaluated.
The instructor should review the course learning outcomes and the expectations of the evaluation with the student.
The non-refundable fee must be paid to the Student Accounts Office prior to the evaluation. The Student Accounts Office will then sign the appropriate section of the approval form indicating that the fee has been paid.
Once the evaluation is completed, the instructor will complete the Credit by Evaluation form with the appropriate grade.  The completed form, the completed evaluation rubric, the grading scale used for the rubric, and any other evaluation documentation should be submitted to the chairperson within seven days of the evaluation.   A minimum grade of C (or equivalent) is required to earn credit.
The academic chair will complete the form and forward it to the registrar for processing.
Academic Advising
All new students must meet with their assigned advisor during their first term to ensure that they understand the curriculum and future scheduling procedures. All new students are provided with a program outline. The program outline specifically cites requirements for all required courses and the exact credit breakdown related to electives. In subsequent quarters, the advisors work with the students to ensure that students make satisfactory progress without violating prerequisites.
Prerequisite Policy
The student is responsible for ensuring that he or she has successfully completed all prerequisites before taking a course. If any prerequisites have not been successfully completed by the start of the course, the student is required to drop the course. Students in violation of this prerequisite policy are subject to removal from the course. The student will be allowed to continue in the course only if a prerequisite waiver is approved by the chair of the appropriate academic department or school. Prerequisites are listed in the
Course Descriptions
section of this catalog.
Registration Deadline–Adding Classes/Changing Sections
The deadline to register for classes is Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 pm. Students may neither add a course nor change sections after 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week. Prior to the registration deadline, a student may drop a course from their schedule with no financial consequence and no record of the drop on their transcript.
The registration deadline is also the deadline for students who want to change from credit to audit status or from audit to credit status.
Dropping Individual Classes
The deadline for students to drop individual classes from their schedule, or for faculty to drop students from their class, is Monday of the 8
th
week of the term at 6:00 pm.
Any course dropped after Friday of the first week of the term at 4:30 p.m. will show on the student transcript with a grade of W (withdrawal).  Students must submit a Dropping a Class form to the Registrar’s Office to officially drop a course.
During the summer term, the deadline to drop individual classes is the Friday of the week before the final exam at 4:30 pm.  If there is no final exam scheduled, the deadline is the Friday of the week before the final class meeting.
All students are responsible for their academic schedule. Students should not rely on instructors to drop them for non-attendance.  Faculty are not required to drop students who stop attending class.
Withdrawal from All Classes
Students who wish to drop all classes must complete a
Withdrawal From all Classes and/or Intent Not to Return form
which is available in the Registrar’s Office.
This must be done before 4:30 p.m. Friday of the 10
th
week of classes.
During the summer term, the deadline to withdraw from all classes is the Friday of the week before the final exam. If there is no final exam scheduled, the deadline is the Friday of the week before the final class meeting at 4:30 pm.
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal, NOT on the date of last class attendance. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Should a student fail to meet the withdrawal deadline, he/she will be responsible for tuition for all scheduled classes and will receive final grades in all of them. If a student is receiving financial aid, it is strongly recommended that he or she contact the Financial Aid Office prior to withdrawing so that they can explain any financial consequences associated with the withdrawal.
If a student plans to complete the current quarter but not return in a future quarter, he/she should fill out a “Withdrawal From all Classes and/or Intent Not to Return” form which is available in the Registrar’s Office.
A student who withdraws from all classes for any two consecutive terms will have a hold placed on his or her account. The student will need to submit a written explanation of the circumstances that led to the withdrawals and will also need to meet with a committee to discuss his/her readiness to return to classes. The committee will determine whether the student is allowed to register or must take additional time off from school.
Auditing Courses
An audit is intended to provide students with an opportunity to review subject matter they have previously studied or to participate in courses to obtain information of interest to them. Since an audit does not carry any credits, auditing of noncredit courses such as seminars and short courses is not permitted.
A student wanting to audit a course must have the proper prerequisites for the course. Permission to audit a course must be granted through the student’s program director or advisor. Students may not enroll for subsequent courses for credit based upon audited prerequisite subjects. Auditors may not use audited courses as a means for obtaining credit for any course or to satisfy any degree requirement.
Students may change from audit to credit status or credit to audit status only until Friday of the first week of classes; fees will be adjusted accordingly. The cost to audit a course is three-fourths the regular tuition of the course for students registering for 0 to 11 credits. If a student’s total credits including the audit are in the full-time range (12-19 credits), there is no additional charge.
Directed Study
In the unusual event that an undergraduate student is unable to schedule a specific course required for graduation, the student may be eligible to register for a Directed Study. Directed Study provides one-on-one instruction with an MSOE faculty member. Generally, permission for such registration is granted only if the course is required in the student’s major and if the student is within 16 credits of graduation. Some courses, due to their nature, may not be eligible for Directed Study. Rare exceptions can be made for students whose lack of prerequisites would significantly delay them in their program of study. Appropriate forms are available and permission must be obtained from the chairperson of the academic department or school under which the course is taught.
Independent Study
An Independent Study gives a student the opportunity to pursue a specialized topic not covered in regularly scheduled course work. The student works closely with a faculty advisor on a project. The student must complete the appropriate Independent Study Form, available from the program director, and present it at the time of registration for the course.
Readmission of Undergraduate Students
Students admitted to an undergraduate degree program who have not registered for a course at MSOE in the last two years must apply for readmission through the Enrollment Management Department.
All newly re-admitted students are responsible for completing the program of study that is current at the time of their re-admittance. Students seeking readmission are not guaranteed entry into their original academic degree program.
For students who plan to transfer in their final course(s) for graduation, these courses must be submitted for transfer within two years of the student’s last registered term at MSOE. If the student attempts to transfer in credits after two years, the student will be evaluated against the current curriculum track for that program to determine graduation requirements.
Students who have an academic status of suspended must successfully appeal their status to the Student Advancement Committee before being readmitted.
Readmission of Service Members
The Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008 requires that students who left MSOE to serve in the uniformed services be readmitted into the same program with the same standing they had when they left. MSOE allows for special readmission of these students, with the following provisions:
Student’s lapse in attendance was due to active duty in the uniformed services, including the National Guard or Reserve, for more than 30 days.
The student must submit documentation that their absence was due to participation in the uniformed services. (Examples of such documentation include a copy of the student’s orders, a DD214, or a signed and dated statement from the student’s commanding officer.)
The cumulative length of all absences from MSOE for participation in the uniformed services does not exceed five years.
The student will be admitted to the same academic program, with the same academic standing, that he or she was in at the time the absence began. If the exact program is no longer offered, the student will be placed into a program that is most similar to that program, unless the student requests or agrees to admission to a different program.
The student’s ability to be readmitted under the terms of the HEOA terminates upon any of the following events:
a. Being separated from the armed forces with a dishonorable discharge.
b. Being dismissed as permitted under section 1161(a) of title 10, United States Code.
c. Being dropped from the rolls pursuant to section 1161(b) of title 10, United States Code.
Students who are expected to leave for active duty service should contact the Registrar’s Office as well as the School Certifying Official to ensure all required items are taken care of prior to deployment (laptop hand-in, document submission, etc.). To start the readmission process, service members must complete an admissions application and contact MSOE’s Admissions Office as well as MSOE’s veterans certifying official.
Undergraduate/Graduate Courses (500/5000-level Courses)
Course numbers starting with “5” are generally open to both undergraduate and graduate students. Students enrolled in the 5xxx section will have different requirements and grading from students enrolled in the 4xxx section.
Undergraduate/graduate courses have a double designation. Students taking them for graduate credit register under the 500-level designation. Those taking them for undergraduate credit, including graduate students fulfilling prerequisite requirements, register under a 400-level designation.
Undergraduates who meet the grade point requirements for graduate study may enroll in 500-level courses and receive graduate credit, so long as they have not already taken the equivalent undergraduate course. Students must obtain the approval of the program director or the chair of the department or school that offers the course.
Undergraduate Students Taking a Graduate Course
The following provisions do not apply to students in approved undergraduate/graduate dual degree programs. Current MSOE undergraduate students may take graduate-level courses for one of two reasons: for the course to count toward the student’s undergraduate degree to fulfill elective requirements, or to reserve the graduate credit for future use toward a graduate degree. An undergraduate student must have achieved senior standing (completion of 144 credits) and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 before taking any graduate course. Program directors are required to inform the registrar of students taking graduate courses under this policy. A student may not apply the credits from any course to both the undergraduate and graduate degrees unless the course is part of an approved curriculum.
Undergraduate Students Taking a Graduate Course for Undergraduate Credit
Current MSOE undergraduate students who wish to take a graduate course for undergraduate credit will not have to formally apply to the graduate program to take the graduate course. However, before taking the course, the undergraduate student must receive permission from the chair of the academic department or school to ensure the course will fulfill undergraduate degree requirements and from the graduate course program director to ensure the student is qualified to take the course. Each program director is to decide which, if any, courses within their program may be taken by undergraduate students for undergraduate credit. These courses shall have “Open to undergraduate students with permission of course program director” added to the list of prerequisites in the catalog and the quarterly schedule of classes.
Undergraduate Students Taking a Graduate Course for Graduate Credit
Current MSOE undergraduate students with senior status and a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 who wish to take a graduate course and reserve it for graduate credit must get the approval of the program director whose curriculum encompasses the course before taking any graduate courses. An undergraduate student may not reserve more than nine graduate credits. These nine credits are not to be applied toward the limit of transferring nine credits into a graduate program. These reserved credits are subject to evaluation upon admission to a graduate program but will not count toward the transfer credit limit of that program.
Grading System (Undergraduate)
Students receive letter grades in each course for which they register. Grades and their grade point equivalents are awarded on the following scale:
Letter
Grade
Grade Points
A
(100 - 93)
4.00
AB
(92 - 89)
3.50
B
(88 - 85)
3.00
BC
(84 - 81)
2.50
C
(80 - 77)
2.00
CD
(76 - 74)
1.50
D
(73 - 70)
1.00
F
(below 70)
0.00
P
LP
NP
Pass
Low Pass
No Pass
S
Satisfactory
U
Unsatisfactory
W
Withdraw from class
*
Incomplete - grade with an asterisk (*)
NR
No grade reported
AU
Audit
AX
Audit dropped
Grade point averages (GPAs) are computed by dividing the number of grade points earned by the number of credit hours attempted.
For undergraduate students, a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00 and a minimum cumulative major GPA of 2.00 is required for graduation.
In the event of a significant disruption of academic activities, as declared by the Vice President of Academics, a temporary, alternative pass/no pass grading scale may be employed. The use of the alternative grading scale must be authorized by the Council for Academic Planning and communicated by the Vice President of Academics. When in effect, the alternative grading scale must be consistently applied university wide.
“Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a C grade or higher, as C is defined in the standard undergraduate grading scale.
“Low Pass” is defined as the equivalent of a CD or D grade, as they are defined in the standard undergraduate grading scale.
“No Pass” is defined as the equivalent of an F grade, as F is defined in the standard undergraduate grading scale.
Grade Changes
Grade changes must be processed by the end of the quarter following the term when the grade was earned. If an extenuating circumstance exists, the student may appeal the one quarter deadline to the chairperson of the department or school that offers the course.
There are two exceptions to this policy:
An exception is granted for capstone courses that record grades of NR until all of the grades are recorded in the final quarter of the project. For capstone projects, all NR grades must be converted to final grades at the end of the academic year of the project.
An exception is granted for graduate capstone project courses in which a grade of Project in Progress (PIP) is recorded.  If the PIP grade is not changed within one calendar year from being first recorded, the PIP grade will resolve to a grade of Unsatisfactory (U).  The program director can prevent the conversion to the U grade if the project advisor verifies that the student is still making suitable progress on the project.
No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred. After a student’s degree is conferred, the transcript is considered a finalized historical document and cannot be changed.
Incomplete Grades
A letter grade followed by an asterisk is a temporary grade indicating incomplete work. It is the responsibility of the student to make arrangements with the instructor to have the work completed; these arrangements must be initiated within the first two weeks of the following quarter (not including the Summer Quarter). The student must submit the required work to complete the course within the time deadline set by the instructor, but this may not be later than the end of the same quarter. If the student has not completed all work for the course after this period of time, the asterisk will be dropped and the letter grade preceding the asterisk will become the permanent grade. The letter preceding the asterisk represents the grade the student will earn if no additional work is completed. The letter grade can go up if additional work is completed, but it cannot go down. The letter grade preceding the asterisk is calculated into the student’s GPA. No grade changes will be processed after a student’s degree is conferred.
An incomplete grade is given at the discretion of the instructor. Incomplete grades are reserved for situations in which a student has done satisfactory work in a course until near the end of the term but because of extenuating circumstances, the course could not be completed.
Grade Appeals
A student may appeal a final grade he or she believes was given unfairly or in error. The student should first contact the instructor assigning the grade and explain why they believe the grade to be in error. If the appeal to the instructor does not lead to resolution, the student may formally appeal the grade in writing to the chairperson of the department or school in which the course is being offered. If the appeal to the academic chair does not resolve the issue, a final written appeal may be directed to the vice president of academics. Any grade change appeal must be in process by the official end of the term following the term in which the grade was earned; if the course is a prerequisite to a next term course and the initial grade submitted was a failing grade, the process must be completed by Friday of the first week of the term.
Not Reported (NR) Grade
For specific project-oriented courses (senior design for example), student grade reports may reflect a grade designation “NR” each quarter until final course requirements are satisfied, at which time all previously reported “NR” grades will be converted to final course grades. Students receiving those grades should be aware that, unlike an incomplete grade, the “NR” grade is not computed in any quarter’s GPA until a replacement grade is recorded.
Major Grade Point Average
The major GPA is designed to show a student’s proficiency in his/her specific degree program. Major GPA is calculated after nine credits have been earned in applicable courses.
A major GPA of 2.00 or higher is required for graduation.
Nursing students only: A grade of “C” or better is required in all NU courses. See
Nursing, B.S.
program page for additional policies.
Courses used in calculating the major GPA in each program are as follows:
Actuarial Science:
all MA and AC courses, and all required MS and BA courses
Architectural Engineering:
all AE, CM and CV courses 200/2000 - 400/4000 level
Bachelor of Business Administration:
all required BA and MS courses; all concentration electives
Biomedical Engineering:
all BE, EE and ME courses and all technical electives
BioMolecular Engineering:
all EB courses
Civil Engineering
: all required AE, CM, and CV courses 200/2000 - 400/4000 level; technical electives do not count into the major GPA
Computer Engineering:
all required EECS Department courses; all technical electives
Computer Science:
all required EECS Department courses; all program electives
Construction Management:
all AE, CM and CV courses 200/2000 - 400/4000 level
Electrical Engineering:
all required EECS courses and all technical elective courses
Engineering:
all EE, GE, IE, ME required courses, and all technical electives
Industrial Engineering:
all IE courses
Mechanical Engineering:
all ME courses
Nursing:
all required NU courses; nursing electives do not count into the major GPA
Software Engineering:
all required EECS Department courses; all program electives
User Experience
:  all required UX and TC courses; all major electives
Midterm Progress Reports
Students desiring a
midterm progress report
may receive one from each instructor during the sixth week of the quarter. Forms for requesting this service are available in the Registrar’s Office. It is the responsibility of the student to submit requests to the instructor(s) during the fifth week of the term. The instructor(s) will return the completed form to the student in the sixth week of the term. No official record of the midterm grade is kept.
Repeating and Grade Replacing Courses
Anytime an undergraduate student repeats a class in which he or she initially earned a penalty grade, it is processed as a grade replacement.  This means that the initial grade will not count into the student’s grade point average once the course is completed the second time.  Penalty grades are defined as any final grade of CD, D or F. Grade-replaced grades will show on the transcript, but will not be averaged into the student’s grade point average. Courses in which a non-penalty grade was earned can be repeated but they cannot be grade replaced. Courses must be retaken at MSOE to be eligible for grade replacement.
Nursing students only: Additional progression policies apply to all nursing students. See the
Curricular Information section on the Nursing, B.S. program page.
Grade Replacement Policy for Lübeck Study-abroad Program
MSOE/Technische Hochschule Lübeck (THL) study-abroad program participants only: Courses taken at MSOE cannot be used to grade replace any junior year THL grades. All participating students are required to follow THL policies regarding retaking/passing of exams and tests for THL courses. All resulting THL grades will be converted into MSOE grades. For all THL courses, MSOE students are always allowed to retake the equivalent MSOE course, if offered, but only without grade replacement.
MSOE University Honors Scholars Program Progression Policy
For a student to continue in the honors program the following conditions must be met:
Students must successfully complete the required honors courses in the academic year they are assigned (e.g. all freshmen level courses -
GS 1010H
,
GS 1020H
, and
GS 1030H
- must be completed during the student’s first year)
The student must earn a cumulative GPA of 3.2 at the end of each academic year
Remain in good academic standing each term
Students will be assessed for their eligibility to continue in the honors program at the end of each academic year.  Students who do not meet the above requirements will be removed from the program and its associated privileges, including but not limited to, the living/learning community housing.
If a student does not earn a GPA of 3.2 in a given quarter, they must meet with the honors program director or designee during week 1 of the subsequent quarter to ensure they are on pace to meet year end program requirements.
Students whose active military duty, prolonged illness, or extenuating circumstances require them to withdraw from classes may appeal to stay in the MSOE University Scholars Honors Program. A written appeal must be received by the program director by 4:30 p.m. central time on the first day of the quarter the student wishes to resume participation in the program.
If a student is placed on probation, the MSOE University Scholars Honors program director will be notified.  The program director will meet with the student, their advisor, the assistant dean of students, and/or academic chair to determine if the student should remain in the program.
Students placed on suspension will be immediately removed from the honors program.
Academic Standing
An undergraduate student is in good academic standing when all of the following are equal to or greater than 2.00:
The cumulative grade point average and
The cumulative major grade point average. (Cumulative major GPA for the purposes of academic standing is always calculated after completion of 15 major credits.)
Academic standing is processed after the fall, winter, and spring quarters as indicated below.
Academic Probation and Suspension
After the fall and winter quarters, students with a cumulative GPA or cumulative major GPA below 2.00 will be placed on academic probation.  Students who are on probation are required to meet with their academic advisor within the first 4 weeks of the subsequent term to develop a plan for improvement.  Most freshmen and sophomore students on academic probation will be required to participate in a one-credit class called Foundations of Student Success.
At the end of each spring term, any student with a cumulative GPA or cumulative major GPA below 2.00 is subject to suspension and their record will be reviewed to determine whether they will be allowed to continue in the next academic year.  If after that review, it is determined that the student is allowed to continue, he or she will be allowed to return in the next academic year with a status of academic probation.  If after that review, the academic suspension is upheld, the student has the opportunity to meet with committee members to appeal the decision in person.  Students are only allowed one personal appeal with the committee.  Decisions of the committee are final.
All full- and part-time undergraduate students are eligible for active membership in student organizations. A student with less than a 2.00 cumulative GPA may not have officer-level responsibilities in any student organization or extracurricular activity, serve as a student representative on any institutional committee or represent the university as a member of any MSOE athletic team. It is the student’s responsibility to inform the organization of ineligibility and the organization’s responsibility to inform the Student Activities staff. In addition, academic eligibility will be reviewed periodically by the Student Activities staff for student organizations and is reviewed quarterly by the Registrar’s Office and the Athletic Department for the intercollegiate athletics.
Please note that there are separate financial aid warning and financial aid suspension policies.
Dean’s List and Honors List
MSOE encourages excellence in academic achievement and, as a result, publishes the Dean’s List and Honors List each quarter. Students taking undergraduate courses who have earned at least 30 credits in residence at MSOE, are in good academic standing, and have a cumulative GPA of 3.20 or higher are on the Dean’s List. Students on that list who have maintained a 3.70 or higher receive “high honors.” Students with a
term
GPA of 3.20 or higher, who are not on the Dean’s List, are on the Honors List.
Bachelor’s Degree Graduation Requirements
Authority for the granting of degrees by MSOE and making of exceptions to standard policies lies with the vice president of academics and the Executive Educational Council.  In all cases where ABET-accredited programs or other accreditations are in effect, care will be taken to ensure that all graduates meet or exceed the minimum accreditation criteria.
Bachelor’s degree recipients are expected to satisfy all courses prescribed in the curriculum for the particular area of study in which the degree is granted. The official graduation date will be the end of the quarter in which all graduation requirements have been met.
A cumulative GPA of 2.00 or higher and a major GPA of 2.00 or higher are required for graduation. Undergraduate students who graduate with a cumulative GPA of between 3.20 and 3.69 will graduate with “Honors.” Students who graduate with a cumulative GPA of 3.70 or above will graduate with “High Honors.”   Attendance and participation in formal university Commencement is required of all bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates as a prior condition for receipt of the official diploma.
For 2019-2020 spring and summer quarter graduates
: Undergraduate students who graduate with a cumulative GPA of between 3.13 and 3.66 and receive a grade of P in all remaining courses will graduate with “Honors.” Students who graduate with a cumulative GPA of 3.67 or higher and receive a grade of P in all remaining courses will graduate with “High Honors.”
Residency Requirements:  At least 40 percent of the total bachelor’s degree credits must be earned in residence at MSOE.  In addition, 45 of the last 90 quarter credits, including senior design or capstone course specified for the major, must be earned in residence.  MSOE Advanced Credit Examinations, Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), and College Level Examination (CLEP) are not considered credits earned in residence.
Minors
A student who completes a bachelor’s degree at MSOE may also earn a
minor
in one or more areas by satisfactory completion of all the requirements stipulated for each minor. Students must declare their pursuit of a minor in the Registrar’s Office
Efforts will be made to run sufficient courses for a minor over a four-year period. There is no guarantee that courses for a minor will be conveniently scheduled.
Of the total number of credits required for an academic minor, no more than 50% may be transferred in from another college or university.
A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.000 is required in courses counted toward the minor.
The minor must be achieved prior to the award of a student’s bachelor’s degree.
Independent studies may not be used for consideration toward the awarding of a minor.
Of the total number of credits required for an academic minor, at least THREE credits must be taken beyond credits required for the student’s major field of study.
Minors may only be granted in a discipline other than a student’s major.
Courses waived and credits granted by MSOE due to students having achieved acceptable levels in AP/IB/CLEP courses may count toward the minor.
There will be no limits on the number of minors a student may receive.
There will be no substitutions for the requirements of a minor without the appropriate minor coordinator or academic chair’s written approval.
Minors earned will appear on the student’s transcript, but not diploma.
Undergraduate Double-major Candidates
To receive a second bachelor’s degree from MSOE, a student must meet all course requirements for both degrees.  In addition, a student must complete a minimum of 40 credits that are unique to the second degree. These credits must be over and above those that satisfied requirements for the first degree. Science and mathematics courses taken to fulfill basic second-degree requirements will not count toward these 40 required credits. Students must declare their double major with the Registrar’s Office after obtaining approval from both their primary degree and their second major program directors. During the approval process, the 40 required credits for the second degree must be documented. Re-admission to the university will be required for students away from MSOE longer than two years.
Certificates
A student wishing to complete a certificate does so by satisfactory completion of all the requirements stipulated for each certificate. Students must declare their pursuit of a certificate in the Registrar’s Office using the Certificate Completion form. This form must be submitted within one calendar year of completion of final course required for the certificate.
Credits and courses required for a certificate may double count toward meeting MSOE degree requirements; however, a course may count toward no more than one certificate and one degree.
All course requirements for the certificate must be completed in residence.
A minimum grade point average of 2.00 is required for the course work that is counted toward the certificate.
Students may not earn a certificate and degree in the same area of specialization.
There is no limit on the number of certificates a student may earn.
Of the total number of credits required for the certificate, at least THREE credits must be taken beyond credits required for the particular student’s major field of study.
There is a maximum of three years from initial enrollment in a certificate course to complete all certificate requirements, if enrolled in certificate program only.
If the certificate is earned concurrently with enrollment in a degree program, the time limit shall be the same as the degree program.
No courses shall be specifically designed exclusively to accommodate a certificate-additional courses that can be used as elective in regular programs may be designed to facilitate a certificate.
Efforts will be made to run sufficient courses for a certificate over a four-year period. There is no guarantee that courses for a certificate will be conveniently scheduled.
There will be no substitutions for the course requirements of a certificate without the appropriate department chair’s written approval.
Graduation Procedures
Attendance and participation in a formal university commencement is required of all bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates as a prior condition for receipt of the official diploma.
Students
must apply
for graduation in the Registrar’s Office by the dates posted on the
Registrar’s Office website
. For those who submit a graduation application on time, the Registrar’s Office will do a graduation audit before the end of the first week of the term in which the student plans to graduate and notify the student by email if additional courses are required. Students must be scheduled to complete all degree requirements in the term in which they participate in the commencement ceremony. An exception to this policy will be made for students intending to complete no more than two courses during the summer months; these students may participate in the spring commencement ceremony. Any other exception to this policy requiring completion of all degree requirements prior to participation in a commencement ceremony must be requested in writing and approved by the vice president of academics. Such a request must be based on unusual circumstances that would impose a significant and verifiable hardship on the student.
A student completing graduation requirements by the end of a term, but who has not applied for graduation by the application deadline, may be allowed to participate in the ceremony, but the receipt of the diploma may be delayed.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.