University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
Student Financial Services
Academic Regulations and Policies
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
The Raider Core
Explorer Pathways
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Departments and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
University Overview
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Core Values
MSOE’s Constituents
The MSOE Guarantee
Accreditation
The Academic Year
Affiliations
Degree Programs
Cooperative Education Program
Vision Statement
MSOE will set the standard for preparing leaders to solve the diverse technical challenges of the 21st century.
Mission Statement
MSOE is the university of choice for those seeking an inclusive community of experiential learners driven to solve the complex challenges of today and tomorrow.
Core Values
Collaboration
- We value working together across boundaries.
Excellence
- We value the pursuit and achievement of excellence.
Inclusion
- We value authentic engagement with diverse people, beliefs, and ideas.
Innovation
- We value creativity and new ideas for life-long service, discovery, and growth.
Integrity
- We value doing the right thing in a reliable way.
Stewardship
- We value the responsible use of our resources.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities including but not limited to the business, educational, and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and gain insights from them and provide them services of value.
The MSOE Guarantee
This fall, millions of students will begin their quest for a four-year college degree. However, for many, it will take five or more years to earn the degree. At some institutions, the courses needed to make steady academic progress are often unavailable to students when they need them. MSOE guarantees that will not happen to students who follow their four-year plan, as published in the academic catalog.
Students who have successfully received credit for all prior required coursework in their curriculum map by the time of regular registration will be guaranteed seats in the next set of required curriculum map courses if they register during the regular registration period. The guarantee does not apply to student-chosen electives, but MSOE will ensure that students are able to register for a course that satisfies the elective requirement.
We also recognize there will be times when graduates need to brush up on the subject matter from a course they have successfully completed. MSOE guarantees that graduates may refresh their knowledge by repeating any undergraduate course they took at MSOE, at no cost, within three years of graduation. This will enhance their job performance and may be initiated by the graduate or the graduate’s employer. Courses retaken under the MSOE Guarantee will be taken on an audit basis and no grade will be earned.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, an institutional accreditation agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (230 South LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500, Chicago, IL 60604; 800-621-7440;
https://www.hlcommission.org/
). Individual degree programs are accredited by appropriate professional accreditation organizations as noted in each corresponding program outline.
The Academic Year
The academic year is divided into two 16-week semesters, starting in August or September through May. Courses are also offered during the summer. For more information, please see the
Academic Calendar
portion of this catalog.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN)
American Association of University Women (AAUW)
American Society for Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
Association of Independent Technological Universities
College Board
College Entrance Examination Board
College Scholarship Service Assembly
Council for Advancement and Support of Education
Higher Education Data Sharing Consortium (HEDS)
Higher Education Regional Alliance (HERA)
KEEN - Engineering Unleashed
National Academic Advising Association
National Association for College Admission Counseling
National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE)
National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU)
US Green Building Council
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (WAICU)
Degree Programs
MSOE is dedicated to preparing graduates for productive and successful careers. Programs of study provide students with ample opportunities to progress in accordance with their individual abilities and professional goals. MSOE offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, noncredit courses and seminars, on-site and online educational offerings, and a variety of services that meet the needs of both full-time and part-time students, business, and industry.
Students in a baccalaureate-level curriculum are encouraged to follow a carefully planned curriculum map. These maps, as well as program details, can be found in the
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
portion of this catalog. MSOE offers the following degree programs. The undergraduate programs are described fully in this catalog.
Bachelor’s Degrees
Accounting
Actuarial Science
Architectural Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Construction Management
Electrical Engineering
Finance
Industrial Engineering
Management
Marketing
Mechanical Engineering
Nursing
Operations and Systems Management
Software Engineering
Technical and Business Management
User Experience
Master’s Degrees
Architectural Engineering
Civil Engineering
Engineering
Engineering Management
Machine Learning
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Nursing
Perfusion
MSOE also offers multiple
study abroad programs
, and students may pursue a double major or dual degree.
Early Entry to Master’s Degrees
Current MSOE students may apply for certain master’s programs once they have achieved junior standing in the undergraduate program. Accepted students with senior standing may take up to 16 credits of graduate courses before their bachelor’s degree is conferred that also fulfill undergraduate requirements. Each program specifies how many credits count toward undergraduate requirements. See the undergraduate program descriptions to find details about early entry programs.
Cooperative Education Program
Cooperative education, referred to as a “co-op,” is a valuable component of academic study, where MSOE students in specified programs take a semester and summer off to work full-time in a professional setting. A co-op is a paid, structured, experiential-learning opportunity where employers provide students with a variety of challenging work responsibilities and provide generous technical and professional support. Co-ops are tied to MSOE through corresponding academic courses. The associated courses allow students to leave school in good standing with all the benefits of a full-time student. The co-op work experience is intended to be an integral part of the student’s education that can provide them with valuable portfolios and increase their job prospects. Students interested in a co-op experience should contact the Career Connection Center.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.