Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC) - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
Student Financial Services
Academic Regulations and Policies
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
The Raider Core
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Departments and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Main Office: Campus Center, Student Life Office
Website:
https://www.msoe.edu/admissions-aid/financial-aid-scholarships/scholarships-and-grants/rotc-scholarship
Air Force ROTC
Army ROTC
Navy ROT
C
Overview
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC) is an educational program that trains students to be officers in the United States military. ROTC students learn leadership skills in college in order to have a successful military or civilian career. Each branch of the armed services has an ROTC program.
Scholarship opportunities are available through all the ROTC programs in a variety of academic majors. A description of each of the ROTC programs offered at MSOE follows.
Air Force ROTC
Students have the opportunity to pursue a commission in the United States Air Force through the Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (AFROTC) program. Required AFROTC courses are offered at Marquette University and are taught by resident full-time Aerospace Studies faculty.
This program offers students the opportunity to prepare for initial active duty assignments as Air Force commissioned officers. In order to receive a commission, AFROTC cadets must complete all university requirements for a degree, complete courses specified by the Air Force, and maintain Air Force moral, academic, and physical fitness standards. AFROTC courses are normally taken for credit as part of a student’s electives. The amount of credit given toward a degree for AFROTC academic work varies as determined by the student’s college and major. AFROTC offers three-, four-, and five-year programs leading to a commission as an Air Force officer. AFROTC cadets complete the General Military Course, a two-week summer Field Training experience between their sophomore and junior years followed by the Professional Officer Course, and must meet all required Air Force standards to obtain their commission upon graduation.
General qualifications:
Be a full-time student (12+ credit hours)
Maintain a minimum 2.0 grade point average
Be a United States citizen
Be in good physical condition
Be of good moral character
For pilot or navigator training, fulfill all commissioning requirements before age 32
General Military Course:
The first- and second-year educational program in Air Force Aerospace Studies consists of a series of one-hour courses designed to give students basic information on the role of the U.S. Air Force in the defense of the free world. All required textbooks and uniforms are provided free. The General Military Course is open to all students without advance application and does not obligate students to the Air Force in any way.
Professional Officer Course:
The third and fourth years of Air Force Aerospace Studies instruction are designed to develop skills and attitudes vital to the professional officer. Students completing the Professional Officer Course are commissioned as officers in the U.S. Air Force upon college graduation. Students in the Professional Officer Course receive a nontaxable subsistence allowance of $450 per month during their junior academic year and $500 per month during their senior year.
Leadership Laboratory:
Leadership Laboratory is a cadet-centered activity. It is largely cadet planned and directed, in line with the premise that it provides leadership-training experience that will improve a cadet’s ability to perform as an Air Force officer. The class length is four hours per week which includes two hours of physical fitness held at MSOE and various locations, as well as two hours of leadership training at Marquette.
The freshman and sophomore Leadership Laboratory program introduces Air Force customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, wearing the uniform, career opportunities in the Air Force, education and training benefits, and life and work of an Air Force officer. Experiences include preparing the cadet for individual, squadron and flight movements in drill and ceremonies and preparation for the field training assignment prior to the junior year.
The junior and senior Leadership Laboratory program involves the cadets in advanced leadership experiences. Cadet responsibilities include planning and directing the activities of the cadet corps, preparing briefings and written communications. They also provide feedback, guidance, information and other services geared to increase the performance and motivation of underclassman cadets.
Field Training:
Students pursuing a commission must successfully complete Field Training in order to advance to the Professional Officer Course. Students are competitively selected to attend Field Training based on their performance in the AFROTC program to include their academic and physical fitness record. Field Training is conducted during the summer months at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, AL. The Air Force pays all expenses associated with Field Training. The major areas of study include physical training, drill and ceremonies, leadership skill development and application, career orientation and an introduction to Air Force expeditionary training and Air Force deployment environment.
AFROTC College Scholarship Program:
This program provides scholarships to selected students participating in AFROTC. While participating in AFROTC, scholarship students receive up to full tuition, fees, laboratory expenses and $900 per year for textbooks. Additionally, scholarship students receive a tax-free monthly stipend of $300 per month as freshmen, $350 per month as sophomores, $450 per month as juniors and $500 per month as seniors.
Air and Space Force Careers:
Students who successfully graduate from the program will commission into the Air Force for a minimum of four years. Careers include, but are not limited to, developmental engineering, civil engineering, nursing, piloting, and space operations.
Requirements for scholarship and commissioning:
Be a U.S. citizen.
Be at least 17 years of age on the date of enrollment and under 31 years of age on Dec. 31 of the estimated year of commissioning.
Pass an Air Force physical exam.
Be selected by a board of Air Force officers.
Have no moral objections or personal convictions that prevents bearing arms and supporting and defending the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic (Applicants must not be conscientious objectors.).
Achieve a qualifying score on the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test.
Maintain a minimum 2.5 grade point average.
AFROTC High School Scholarship Program:
High school students may apply for an AFROTC scholarship prior to December 1 of their senior year. Interested students are encouraged to submit applications early. An online scholarship application is available at the
U.S. Air Force ROTC website
. High school students who receive an Air Force scholarship may also be eligible for further subsidies from their school.
For more information on the Air Force ROTC program, visit the Marquette University AFROTC website.
http://www.marquette.edu/rotc/airforce/
or call (414) 288-7682.
Army ROTC
MSOE students have the opportunity to participate in the Army Reserve Officers Training Corps (AROTC) at Marquette University. The AROTC program provides students with leadership, management, technical, and tactical skills that will enable them to start their journey as commissioned officers in the United States Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard.
Army ROTC is not a major field of study. It is a program in which students pursue a degree of their choice and take AROTC courses in military-oriented subject matter. AROTC provides a general knowledge of the contemporary role of the Army in support of national objectives and a practicum in management and leadership skills. The entire program is 27 credits normally spread out over 8 semesters. Credits earned in military science courses may apply toward graduation requirements.
The Army ROTC program offers competitive two-, three-, and four-year scholarships to qualified students. Scholarships cover full tuition and fees or up to $12,000 in housing/meals, $1,200 a year for books, and a $420 monthly stipend. Four-year scholarships are available through the High School National Scholarship process for high school seniors through the Army website:
https://www.goarmy.com/careers-and-jobs/find-your-path/army-officers/rotc/scholarships.html
Once in college, students may apply for on-campus scholarships with the AROTC program.
General Eligibility
To be eligible for an AROTC scholarship, students must:
Be a United States citizen
Be between 17 and 30
Be a full-time student
Have no major civil convictions
Be medically qualified
Have a minimum 2.5 GPA
Pass the physical fitness test
Pass height/weight standards
The Army ROTC program is divided into two parts: the basic course (freshman and sophomore years) and the advanced course (junior and senior years). All courses are held at Marquette University.
Basic Course
In the basic course, cadets learn basic military skills and receive the foundation for leadership and management skills that are expanded during the advanced course. The basic course is open to all full-time MSOE students without any obligation to the Army.
Advanced Course
The advanced course is taken during the students’ junior and senior year. Students in this program must have completed the basic course or equivalent, have two years remaining in college, and enter into a contract with the Army. During the advanced course, cadets learn more extensive leadership and management skills, and they are placed into various leadership positions in the battalion. Cadets also develop skills and attributes that are essential for all commissioned officers in the U.S. Army.
In addition to completing the military science courses, advanced-course students are required to attend the
Advanced Camp
at Fort Knox during the summer between the junior and senior years. During this 35-day event, cadets are expected to apply all of the skills that they have learned in the AROTC program.
Physical Training
Three times a week, cadets are required to attend physical training (PT). During PT, cadets do physical activities such as cardio and strengthening exercises. PT is conducted at Marquette University.
Field Exercises
Once a semester, all cadets in the program travel to Fort McCoy, Wisconsin, to practice all of the skills that they have learned. This event is normally Thursday to Sunday in September and April. Advanced course cadets also are given the opportunity to improve their leadership skills by being placed in various leadership positions leading cadets.
Extracurricular and Summer Training:
Students have opportunities throughout the school year to participate in extra curricular activities such as Ranger Challenge, Color Guard, Recondo Club, and Northern Warfare competitions. Over the summer, cadets may attend courses such as Air Assault, Airborne, language program, and internships.
For more information about enrolling in the Army ROTC program, contact
armyrotc@marquette.edu
, the Department of Military Science at Marquette University, (414) 288-2188, or the website:
https://www.marquette.edu/army-rotc/
Navy ROTC
NROTC is a commissioning program for Navy unrestricted line communities, the Navy Nurse Corps., and the Marine Corps. Students who enroll in our program will become Midshipmen in the United States Navy Reserve. Our Midshipmen are full-time students who have NROTC course requirements through the Marquette Naval Science department in addition to the course requirements for their degree. Upon graduation, they will become commissioned officers in either the United States Navy or Marine Corps.  There are two ways to join the NROTC program: via the College Program or by applying for the NROTC National 4-year Scholarship.
Interested students should first apply for the National 4-year Scholarship online (
http://www.nrotc.navy.mil/
). Awardees will receive full tuition, a book allowance, and a monthly stipend.  In addition, MSOE will honor a student’s MSOE Academic or Transfer Scholarship initially awarded by MSOE’s Admissions Office. At a minimum, MSOE will provide funds to cover a double room and a standard meal plan while receiving an ROTC scholarship. A naval science class is required of all NROTC students each term, with few exceptions, for which MSOE grants credit toward graduation requirements. Students who enroll in NROTC at MSOE do so as “cross-town” students. Required NROTC courses are taught by the Naval Science faculty at the Marquette University campus. The primary undergraduate degree is completed at MSOE.
Many of our Midshipmen join NROTC through the
College Program
. Students who apply for our College Program and are accepted do not initially receive any monetary benefits from the Navy. College Program students are given several opportunities to apply for “Side-load” Scholarships (specifically, a 3-year, 2-year, or 1-year scholarship), which are similar to the 4-year scholarship except they cover three, two, or one year respectively. Once “on scholarship,” you will begin receiving tuition, a textbook allowance, and a monthly stipend just like the 4-year scholarship.
If a College Program student does not receive a scholarship by the start of their Junior year, s/he may be offered what is called Advanced Standing. Advanced standing is offered to our students who have not received a scholarship, but who are still recognized as individuals deserving of a commission. These students receive a monthly stipend and will still become naval officers after graduating.
Among other factors, an applicant’s degree choice may affect their competitiveness in the NROTC program. The Navy is preparing our future officers to meet the challenges in the next generation of technology and leadership. In structuring our academic programs to meet these challenges, undergraduate academic majors for NROTC Navy Option Midshipmen are divided into three categories or tiers: Tier 1 - engineering programs of Navy interest, Tier 2 - other engineering, math and science programs, Tier 3 - Foreign language and remaining academic programs. To keep pace in this high tech and diverse environment, approximately 85% of Navy Option NROTC scholarships will be awarded to students interested in completing a Tier 1 or Tier 2 academic major. Marine Options need not worry about academic major tiers as it will generally not affect their competitiveness. Nurse Option candidates must study nursing.
All of our Midshipmen, regardless of their chosen option (Navy, Nurse, or Marine), have a similar lifestyle. Each semester, our Midshipmen attend Naval Science courses taught by our staff of officers in addition to university classes required for their degree. A Midshipman’s term schedule and degree plan is something planned with a university academic advisor and a Navy advisor. Our Midshipmen attend physical training at Marquette on Mondays from 5:30 a.m. to 6:45 a.m. The Marine Option Midshipmen often attend additional physical training throughout the week. Every Thursday during the semester, our students also attend a general military training course called “Drill,” which is held at the Marquette Old Gymnasium from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with the entire Midshipmen Battalion. All Naval Science courses and physical training also take place at the Marquette Old Gymnasium where the unit is located. Cross-town students studying at MSOE will be given a Marquette Student ID so they can register for Naval Science classes through Marquette. Cross-town students are not charged for these classes.
Before commissioning, our Midshipmen complete at least one
summer training
event (normally at-sea for Navy Midshipmen or at Quantico, VA for Marine Corps Midshipmen). Only Midshipmen who are on scholarship or Advanced Standing participate in summer training. Upon graduation, Midshipmen are commissioned as Ensigns in the Navy or Second Lieutenants in the Marine Corps. They will then be active duty members of the Navy or Marine Corps with service length requirements varying based on the career they have chosen or been assigned (typically this is four to five years).
Please visit the NROTC website at
https://www.netc.navy.mil/NSTC/NROTC/
and our local website at
https://www.marquette.edu/navy-rotc/
.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.