University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate and Professional Education
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Academic Departments, Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Institutional Principles
MSOE’s Constituents
Accreditation
Graduate Degree Programs
The Academic Year
Graduate Program
Affiliations
Location Options
Vision Statement
MSOE will always be at the forefront of professional education with emphasis on both theory and technology, coupled with intensive laboratories and career practice.
Mission Statement
MSOE provides a sustained interactive educational climate for students to become well-rounded, technologically experienced graduates and highly productive professionals and leaders.
Institutional Principles
The fundamental beliefs of Milwaukee School of Engineering are the following:
The focus is on the individual student.
Lifelong learning is essential for success.
Dedicated faculty with relevant, up-to-date experience are the heart of our teaching process.
Scientific and mathematical reasoning and processes are essential.
Applied research and evolving and interdisciplinary technologies are vital in exploiting opportunities.
The development of communication skills is needed to function effectively.
The student experience is strengthened by interaction with the business, industry and health care fields.
The development of leadership and entrepreneurial characteristics is essential.
Students, faculty, staff and volunteers all share the responsibility of learning.
Strong personal values are necessary for success.
The alumni strengthen the institution through their counsel, encouragement and support.
Freedom with responsibility is the foundation of free enterprise.
There is strength in diversity.
Global awareness must be reflected in all activities.
Initiation and acceptance of change is required to anticipate and capitalize on opportunities.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities, including but not limited to, the business, educational and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and to gain insights from them, and to provide them services of value.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. The Master of Science in Perfusion program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (
www.caahep.org
) upon the recommendation of the Accreditation Committee on Perfusion Education (Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs, 1361 Park Street, Clearwater, FL 33756, (727) 210-2350).
The Academic Year
The official academic calendar of MSOE is published in the
Academic Calendar
section of this catalog. The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses are also offered during the summer.
Graduate Program Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
The American Medical Informatics Association
Associated Schools of Construction
Graduate Degree Programs
MSOE offers the following master’s degree programs:
Architectural Engineering (MSAE)
Civil Engineering (MSCVE)
Construction and Business Management (MSCBM)
Engineering (MSE)
Engineering Management (MSEM)
Marketing and Export Management (MSXM)
MBA
MBA in Education Leadership (MBAEL)
MBA in STEM Leadership (MBAST)
Medical Informatics (MSMI)
Offered jointly with Medical College of Wisconsin.
New Product Management (MSNP)
Nursing (MSN)
Perfusion (MSP)
Structural Engineering (MSST)*
*This program is no longer accepting students
Class sizes tend to be small, averaging 10 students per class.
Questions about any of the graduate programs offered by MSOE may be directed to the individual program directors (see the particular graduate program description within this catalog for name and phone number of program director), or to the Graduate and Professional Education Department at (800) 321-6763 or
gpe@msoe.edu
.
All of these programs are explained in detail in the
Degree Programs and Certificates
sections of this catalog.
Location Options
Milwaukee Campus
All graduate programs are offered on MSOE’s main campus, located in downtown Milwaukee. The MSMI program is offered jointly by MSOE and the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW). Access to MCW resources is made available to MSMI students. Occasionally, classes meet at the MCW campus.
On Site
On site offerings are feasible for companies with 10 or more employees who share a common educational need. In some cases, students not necessarily employed by a particular company are permitted to enroll in courses on-site at the company. For more information regarding on site offerings, contact Graduate & and Professional Education at (800) 321-6763 or
gpe@msoe.edu
.
Blended Internet courses
Blended Internet delivery combines the rich faculty/student interaction that is the hallmark of an MSOE education with the flexibility of online learning. The amount of time students spend in class is reduced, while time spent on project-focused learning is enhanced.
MSOE’s blended classes meet face-to-face during alternating weeks. Meetings occur during the evening on “even” or “odd” numbered weeks each academic term. Students may choose any single course or combination of courses. Students may also select classes that meet in traditional format, one evening per week for 11 weeks.
Some blended delivery modes vary by course. See the quarterly course schedules for specific information on face-to-face and distance learning.
Online learning activities are scheduled during non-meeting weeks and are facilitated via MSOE’s Blackboard instructional platform. Digital lectures, interactive discussions, investigative case studies, computerized simulations and synchronous chats are examples of online learning experiences used by MSOE faculty.
Online programs
Some of the MSOE graduate programs can be completed fully online, which provides the student flexibility to study and learn. Courses provide a combination of faculty created content with additional resources found through learning activities utilizing Internet resources, and the MSOE Library. Courses are led by MSOE faculty via Blackboard. Students interact with their professors and other students through discussions, case studies, chat and interactive whiteboards.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.