University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Academic Departments, Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Institutional Principles
MSOE’s Constituents
History
Location
Graduate Degree Programs
Undergraduate Degree Programs
Accreditation
The Academic Year
Affiliations
Location Options
Business Excellence Consortium
Vision Statement
MSOE will always be at the forefront of professional education with emphasis on both theory and technology, coupled with intensive laboratories and career practice.
Mission Statement
MSOE provides a sustained interactive educational climate for students to become well-rounded, technologically experienced graduates and highly productive professionals and leaders.
Institutional Principles
The fundamental beliefs of Milwaukee School of Engineering are the following:
The focus is on the individual student.
Lifelong learning is essential for success.
Dedicated faculty with relevant, up-to-date experience are the heart of our teaching process.
Scientific and mathematical reasoning and processes are essential.
Applied research and evolving and interdisciplinary technologies are vital in exploiting opportunities.
The development of communication skills is needed to function effectively.
The student experience is strengthened by interaction with the business, industry and health care fields.
The development of leadership and entrepreneurial characteristics is essential.
Students, faculty, staff and volunteers all share the responsibility of learning.
Strong personal values are necessary for success.
The alumni strengthen the institution through their counsel, encouragement and support.
Freedom with responsibility is the foundation of free enterprise.
There is strength in diversity.
Global awareness must be reflected in all activities.
Initiation and acceptance of change is required to anticipate and capitalize on opportunities.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and to gain insights from them, and to provide them services of value.
History
At the turn of the 20th century, American industry began a period of rapid expansion. This accelerated the use of electrical and mechanical power. As a result, new occupations emerged in technical fields. Engineers and technicians with knowledge and skill were badly needed, but few people were available who had a combination of technical training and formal education. Industry’s need spurred the development of progressive programs of technical education.
In this context, Oscar Werwath organized the School of Engineering of Milwaukee in 1903. Werwath was a practicing engineer who was a graduate of European technical universities. He was the first to plan an American engineering educational institution based on an applications-oriented curriculum. Milwaukee industries were vitally interested in this kind of training and called on Werwath to provide education and training for their employees. From the beginning, leaders of business and industry cooperated in the university’s development, and a close relationship was established that has continued throughout MSOE’s history. These early supporters realized that their future depended on educational institutions that could prepare men and women to fill the newly created engineering and managerial positions.
For more than a century, MSOE has had many memorable moments, creating a rich tradition of educational excellence that has positioned MSOE as a leader among today’s universities.
Location
MSOE has a small university atmosphere within a vibrant city neighborhood. The 20-acre, user-friendly campus is located in a historic downtown district, just blocks from beautiful Lake Michigan. Milwaukee boasts 60 miles of lakeshore, 15,000 acres of parkland and hundreds of miles of bike trails, a vibrant fine arts and cultural community, major and minor league sports, a brisk live music scene, and is famous for its more than 50 annual festivals. The city is also a business, technological and industrial center offering internships and part- and full-time employment opportunities.
MSOE also offers select undergraduate and graduate course work at other sites within the state.
Graduate Degree Programs
MSOE offers ten master of science degree programs:
• Civil Engineering (MSCVE)
• Construction and Business Management (MSCBM)
• Engineering (MSE)
• Engineering Management (MSEM)
• Environmental Engineering (MSEV)
• Marketing and Export Management (MSXM)
• Medical Informatics (MSMI)
Offered jointly with Medical College of Wisconsin.
• New Product Management (MSNP)
• Perfusion (MSP)
• Structural Engineering (MSST)
Class sizes tend to be small, averaging nine students per class.
Questions about any of the graduate programs offered by MSOE may be directed to the individual program directors (see the particular graduate program description within this catalog for name and phone number of program director), or to Continuing Studies and Outreach at (800) 321-6763 or
cso@msoe.edu
.
All of these programs are explained in detail in the
Degree Programs and Certificates
sections of this catalog.
Undergraduate Degree Programs
MSOE’s undergraduate degree programs are described in a separate publication, the
Undergraduate Academic Catalog
. To view the
Undergraduate Academic Catalog
go to
www.msoe.edu/admiss/catalog.shtml
or contact the Enrollment Management Department at (414) 277-6763 or (800) 332-6763.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and a member of the North Central Association, (800) 621-7440),
www.ncahlc.org
.
The Master of Science in Perfusion program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (
www.caahep.org
) upon the recommendation of the Accreditation Committee on Perfusion Education (Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs, 1361 Park Street, Clearwater, FL 33756, (727) 210-2350).
The Academic Year
The official academic calendar of MSOE is published in the
Academic Calendar
section of this catalog. The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses are also offered during the summer.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
The American Association of Colleges of Nursing
The American Medical Informatics Association
The American Society for Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
The College Board
The College Entrance Examination Board
The College Scholarship Service Assembly
The Council for the Advancement and Support of Education
The National Academic Advising Association
The National Collegiate Athletic Association - Division III
The National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance
Southeast Wisconsin Educational Consortium
The US Green Building Council
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Wisconsin Health Information Exchange
MSOE is also a member of the Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce, Milwaukee World Trade Association, Visit Milwaukee and the East Town Association.
Location Options
Milwaukee Campus
All graduate programs are offered on MSOE’s main campus, located on Milwaukee’s east side. The MSMI program is offered jointly by MSOE and the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW). Access to MCW resources is made available to MSMI students. Occasionally, classes meet at the MCW campus.
Outreach Locations
For the convenience of our students, MSOE offers courses each term in Wisconsin’s Fox Cities area. Students in the MSEM program can attend classes that meet in Neenah, Wis., at the global headquarters of Plexus Corp.
On-Site
On-site offerings are feasible for companies with 10 or more employees who share a common educational need. In some cases, students not necessarily employed by a particular company are permitted to enroll in courses on-site at the company. For more information regarding on-site offerings, contact Continuing Studies and Outreach at (800) 321-6763 or
cso@msoe.edu
.
Blended Internet courses
Blended Internet delivery combines the rich faculty/student interaction that is the hallmark of an MSOE education with the flexibility of online learning. The amount of time students spend in class is reduced, while time spent on project-focused learning is enhanced.
MSOE’s blended classes meet face-to-face during alternating weeks. Meetings occur during the evening on “even” or “odd” numbered weeks each academic term. Students may choose any single course or combination of courses. Students may also select classes that meet in traditional format, one evening per week for 11 weeks.
Online learning activities are scheduled during non-meeting weeks and are facilitated via MSOE’s Blackboard instructional platform. Digital lectures, interactive discussions, investigative case studies, computerized simulations and synchronous chats are examples of online learning experiences used by MSOE faculty.
Business Excellence Consortium
The Business Excellence Consortium (BEC) assists businesses and organizations on the journey to world-class performance through business performance consulting, executive coaching, benchmarking, assessment, strategic planning and deployment. The BEC also gives individuals the opportunity to gain new skills or stay competitive through specialized training programs:
Lean
Six Sigma
Project Management
Leadership
New Product Development and Innovation
Change Management
Graduate Credit for BEC Offerings:
The following BEC courses and projects are eligible for graduate credit toward the master’s degrees offered through the Rader School of Business:
MG 7475 - Lean Master Facilitation
MG 7461 - Six Sigma Black Belt Concepts
MG 7462 - Six Sigma Black Belt Project
MG 5902 - Advanced Project Management: Leading Project Teams
MG 5904 - Advanced Project Management: Financial Concepts and Techniques
For more information on BEC courses available for academic credit, visit
http://bec.msoe.edu/pdf/college_credit.pdf
. To receive academic credit, a student must be accepted into the degree program. BEC credit is considered transfer credit, for which no letter grade is given, and is subject to the nine-credit limit on total transfer credit. A student who has successfully completed one of the qualifying BEC courses or projects and who wishes to receive graduate academic credit should write the program director requesting credit.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.