Graduate Admission Requirements - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate and Professional Education
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Academic Departments, Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration and Faculty
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Graduate Admission Requirements
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
General Requirements
Program-Specific Requirements
Types of Acceptance
International Student Applicants
General Requirements
Admission materials may be obtained from the Graduate & Professional Education Department at (800) 321-6763 or online at
www.msoe.edu/gpe
. The application and letters of recommendation may be submitted online at
www.msoe.edu/apply
.
Upon receipt of all materials, application files are reviewed by the appropriate program director. Students will be promptly notified of their acceptance status. International graduate student applicants should refer to the “
International Student Applicants
”
section for additional information.
General requirements for all graduate programs at MSOE include the following (also see
program-specific requirements
):
Completed application and fee. An online application may be submitted for free at:
www.msoe.edu/apply
.
Completion of a baccalaureate degree in a discipline appropriate for the graduate program to which the applicant seeks admission (see “
Program-Specific Requirements
” section).
Official transcripts sent directly from all colleges and/or universities previously attended. Fees may be assessed for the translation of each transcript and supporting documentation that is in a language other than English.
An academic record that indicates potential achievement in graduate studies. See
program-specific requirements
pertaining to grade point average (GPA) and the need for standardized examinations, such as the Graduate Record Examination (GRE).
Letters of recommendation as required by the program to which you are applying. Online recommendation forms are available at
www.msoe.edu/community/admissions/page/2001/letter-of-recommendation-graduate-programs
.
For applicants whose native language is not English, language proficiency must be demonstrated by one of the following methods:
An average score of 6.5 must be obtained on the IELTS (our preferred test). The band score in each IELTS test component must be 6.0 or higher.
We will accept a TOEFL exam. The total score must be 90 and the level in each test component must be 21 or higher.
We will waive the IELTS/TOEFL requirement if:
You have successfully completed the English as a Second Language program from MSOE or one of our approved partners
Your undergraduate degree is from an institution accredited by an agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education that utilizes English as the primary language (official transcript required).
There are
additional application requirements for international students
.
If a student is a permanent resident of the U.S., then a copy of a permanent resident’s card is a requirement for admission.
International student applicants who will require immigration documents issued by MSOE must submit a certified bank statement or notarized MSOE Financial Certificate, detailing the availability of finances for the first year of study (including tuition and living expenses). If transferring from another institution that has issued immigration documents, an MSOE Transfer Form must also be submitted.
All additional materials should be submitted to:
Graduate Admission - Graduate & Professional Education
Milwaukee School of Engineering
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
Program-specific Requirements
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management (MSCBM)
Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM)
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management (MSXM)
Master of Science in New Product Management (MSNP)
A bachelor’s degree from an accredited university.
Computer literacy, knowledge of word processing and spreadsheet software, and a personal computer (laptop recommended).
Two letters of recommendation. If employed, at least one of the letters should be from the applicant’s employer or manager.
Test scores from the GMAT or GRE if the applicant’s undergraduate GPA was below 2.80 (on a 4.00 scale). All international applicants are expected to submit scores from one of the exams. Test scores must be submitted prior to regular acceptance into the program. Applicants are expected to submit scores that indicate potential for success in the program.
Completion of an advisory briefing within the first quarter of enrollment. The briefing may be completed in either a group session or individual conference, either by phone or in person, with the program director.
Master of Business Administration in Education Leadership (MBAEL)
Be nominated by a principal, superintendent, headmaster, or charter organization officer prior to completing an application. Nominations are open from July-October each year. Candidates who are nominated will receive information about the application via email.
Have earned a minimum 3.25 cumulative GPA in an undergraduate program completed at an accredited institution; or have a minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA in a recently completed graduate program.
Request that official GRE or GMAT scores be sent directly to MSOE. Scores must show performance in the top 25th percentile of the verbal component; in addition, scores in the quantitative or analytic components must indicate sufficient preparation for graduate study.
Have completed a Wisconsin DPI-approved educator preparation program, or a Wisconsin approved educator preparation program in another state or country.
Hold, or be eligible to hold, a Professional Educator License in teaching or pupil services.
Have three years of successful, full-time classroom teaching experience, or three years of successful experience as pupil services professional including 540 hours of classroom teaching experience.
Submit two letters of recommendation from former employers or supervisors who can describe the candidate’s leadership potential. A link to an online recommendation form will be provided to the candidate’s references.
Submit a current resume that details all professional and teaching experience.
Be willing to participate in an in-person interview.
Master of Business Administration in STEM Leadership (MBAST)
To qualify for admission to the MBA in STEM Leadership program, prospective students must:
Hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university, with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00.
Qualify for and complete participation in the Project Lead The Way teacher education program or Center for BioMolecular Modeling science outreach program; or have program director approval.
Have at least three years of professional, full-time work experience as a PK-12 teacher or a community college/university instructor in a STEM field.
Computer literacy, knowledge of word processing and spreadsheet software, a high-speed Internet connection, and a personal computer (laptop recommended).
Test scores from the GMAT or GRE if the applicant’s undergraduate GPA is below 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale). All international applicants are expected to submit scores from either the GMAT or GRE. Test scores that indicated potential for success in the program must be submitted prior to regular acceptance into the program.
Completion of an advisory briefing with the program director within the first quarter of enrollment. The briefing may be completed in a group session or individual conference, and by phone or in person.
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MSCVE)
A bachelor of science degree in civil engineering or a closely related area from an ABET-accredited university. Students who do not have an ABET-accredited undergraduate degree in civil engineering will likely have to take one or more prerequisite courses to satisfy ABET civil engineering undergraduate degree requirements prior to graduation from the MSCVE program.
Test scores from the GRE General Test if an applicant’s undergraduate GPA is less than 3.20 (on a 4.00 scale).
Two letters of recommendation.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to meet with the MSCVE program director to plan a course of study.
Master of Science in Engineering (MSE)
A bachelor of science degree in engineering, engineering technology, or a closely related area.
Specific course requirements include one year of calculus, two courses in physics, and one course in each of the following: structured programming, differential equations and chemistry. Additionally, one course in each of the following engineering topics is required: mechanics, thermodynamics, circuit analysis, and systems analysis. It is expected that the applicant has earned a letter grade of “C” or better in each of these required undergraduate courses.
Two letters of recommendation from professors. If employed, one could be from an employer.
Test scores from the GRE general test if an applicant’s undergraduate GPA is less than 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale). Applicants are expected to submit scores that indicate potential for success in the MSE program, including scores from the “Quantitative” test section that are in the upper 60 percentile of those tested. All international applicants are expected to meet this GRE requirement irrespective of their GPA.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to speak with the MSE program director, either by phone or in person, to plan a course of study.
Master of Science in Medical Informatics (MSMI)*
Minimum undergraduate degree GPA of 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale).
GRE, GMAT or MCAT scores required. (This requirement may be waived for individuals with a graduate degree.)
Transcripts should show proof of undergraduate course work in college algebra, introduction to statistics, introduction to computers, computer programming and medical terminology.
Three letters of recommendation. If employed, at least one of the letters should be from the applicant’s employer or manager.
A personal essay stating why the applicant wishes to pursue this degree.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to speak with the MSMI program director, either by phone or in person, to plan a course of study.
*Please note that applications are evaluated in their entirety. If applicants are deficient in one or more areas, they still are encouraged to apply and we may be able to recommend ways to complete the prerequisites and requirements.
Master of Science in Nursing
The admission criteria for the MSN in Healthcare Systems Management are aligned with the admission criteria for the existing graduate programs. In addition to meeting the general requirements for admission to MSOE graduate study, prospective students must have:
A bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited university. Official transcripts from prior course work must be submitted
Current unrestricted licensure as a Registered Nurse. A copy of the license must be submitted at the time of application.
G.P.A. of 3.00 in the undergraduate nursing degree. An applicant with an undergraduate G.P.A. between 2.50 and 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale) may be considered if the applicant takes or has taken the GRE. The applicant’s GRE test scores will be reviewed to determine the applicant’s potential for success in the program.
Statistics grade of C or higher in a three credit, level 300 or higher statistics course that has been taken within the last five years of date of application. If the course level was less than 300, a syllabus may be submitted to be reviewed for acceptability.
Previous and/or current work experience as a professional nurse is recommended.
Two letters of recommendation from professional sources.
An essay of 250-500 words that describes the applicant’s career goals
Successful completion of an interview with program director and other faculty. At the time of interview, the applicant will be required to write a paragraph in response to questions prepared by faculty.
Criminal background check will be done on all students entering the program.
Master of Science in Perfusion (MSP)
Academic Requirements
Applicants must have earned a bachelor of science degree in an appropriate discipline (biomedical engineering, biology, biomedical sciences, etc.) with an undergraduate GPA of at least 2.80 (on a 4.00 scale).
At least one undergraduate course in each of the following areas: physiology (or anatomy and physiology), chemistry, mathematics and physics. Recommended coursework includes biochemistry and statistics.
GRE general test scores having percentiles that average 50 percent or better.
Three letters of recommendation, two of which should be from faculty who can judge the applicant’s academic abilities. The third may be from a faculty member or a supervisor/employer who can speak to the applicant’s professionalism, ability to work on a team, be responsible, etc.
Clinical Requirements
Applicant must have observed at least two clinical cases under the direction of a Certified Clinical Perfusionist prior to formal acceptance into the program. If applicants cannot schedule case viewings locally, these can be done at our facilities if the applicant is invited for an interview.
Successful completion of a personal interview.
Master of Science in Structural Engineering (MSST)
A bachelor of science degree in an architectural, civil, or structural engineering program, or a closely related degree.
Specific undergraduate course requirements include indeterminate structural analysis, structural steel design, reinforced concrete design and soil mechanics. Applicants who hold an engineering degree, but lack some of the specific course requirements, or applicants who hold closely related degrees, may need to complete deficiencies in undergraduate course work. Applicants may be permitted to begin course work on a probationary status. Such decisions are made on a case-by-case basis.
Test scores from the GRE general test may be required from applicants whose undergraduate GPA is less than 2.80 (on a 4.00 scale). In such cases, test scores must be submitted prior to full acceptance into the Master of Science in Structural Engineering program. Applicants are expected to submit scores that indicate potential for success in the program.
Two letters of recommendation. If employed, at least one of the letters should be from the applicant’s employer or manager.
A personal essay stating why the applicant wishes to pursue this degree.
Prior to registering for any classes, the accepted applicant is required to speak with the program director, either by phone or in person, to plan a course of study.
Types of Acceptance
Full Acceptance
A student who has satisfied all requirements for admission will achieve full acceptance.
Probationary Acceptance
Probationary acceptance is used in cases where (a) there are academic deficiencies that need to be fulfilled, or (b) there is some uncertainty in the applicant’s ability to succeed in the program. Until full acceptance, probationary students may have restrictions imposed on the graduate courses they are permitted to take. Students on probation must consult quarterly with their respective graduate program director prior to registering for the next quarter’s classes. Failure to meet the terms of probation may result in termination from the program.
Nonmatriculated Student Status
Applicants who have not yet completed the application process may be eligible to register as a nonmatriculated student. The nonmatriculated student status allows a student to begin course work without being accepted into a graduate program. Students are limited to this status for one quarter for up to three courses (nine credits). To be eligible for nonmatriculated student status requires completion of an application form, official transcripts confirming receipt of a bachelor’s degree and approval of the program director whose program is offering the course(s). Students should contact the Enrollment Management Department to inquire about eligibility.
Registration as a nonmatriculated student is no guarantee of subsequent acceptance into a graduate program. After the three-course (nine credit) or one-quarter limit is reached, subsequent registrations must be under full or probationary acceptance status.
Nondegree Status
Nondegree status is available for those who wish to take graduate courses but not pursue a degree. Applicants should submit a graduate application marked “Nondegree” and an official transcript showing receipt of a bachelor’s degree. Nondegree students are expected to meet the same requirements that are expected of regular graduate students in the courses they take, receiving grades and graduate credit for courses completed.
Students who are under the nondegree status may apply for official acceptance at any time. Registration as a nondegree student is no guarantee of subsequent acceptance into a graduate program. Credits earned while under the nondegree status will be reviewed to determine if they will be counted toward satisfying program requirements. No more than three courses (nine credits) taken as a nondegree student are transferable to a degree program.
International Student Applicants
Nonimmigrant international students holding the F-1 visa are required to take a course load of at least nine credits as a condition of their visa. The student must document that he or she has sufficient funds for tuition, fees and living expenses. Additional funds must be available for dependents.
MSOE has a very limited number of research assistantships and does not provide other financial aid or scholarships for nonimmigrant graduate students, nor does it employ teaching assistants. All classes are taught by MSOE faculty only.
The United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS - formerly INS, Immigration and Naturalization Services) does not permit off-campus employment of F-1 visa students during their first year of school under any circumstances. Permission to work part time (up to 20 hours per week) after the first year can be granted only by the Bureau of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS), and only after application based on a verifiable change in financial circumstances that would make it impossible to continue in school without income from part-time employment.
Prior to the release of the Immigration Form I-20, a deposit of $175 is required from all accepted international applicants who are not sponsored by a corporation or their government. The deposit is refundable if the student does not enter the United States on a F-1 visa obtained by using the I-20 form issued by MSOE. If the student enters the United States by using MSOE’s I-20 form, but does not enter MSOE, no refund is made, and MSOE is obligated to report this occurrence to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services within 30 days after the expected date of enrollment.
MSOE offers conditional admission based on the completion of courses taken at the English Language Institute (ELI) at MSOE. Program directors, along with the ELI director, will determine when a student is ready to engage in full-time academic study based on their performance in the English-as-a-Second-Language program. Please contact the MSOE Admissions Office for more information about the ELI and conditional admission.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.