University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Administration, Board of Regents, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Institutional Principles
MSOE’s Constituents
General Education
The MSOE Guarantee
Degree Programs
University Scholars Program
Study Abroad
Vision Statement
MSOE will always be at the forefront of professional education with emphasis on both theory and technology, coupled with intensive laboratories and career practice.
Mission Statement
MSOE provides a sustained interactive educational climate for students to become well-rounded, technologically experienced graduates and highly productive professionals and leaders.
Institutional Principles
The fundamental beliefs of Milwaukee School of Engineering are the following:
The focus is on the individual student.
Lifelong learning is essential for success.
Dedicated faculty with relevant, up-to-date experience are the heart of our teaching process.
Scientific and mathematical reasoning and processes are essential.
Applied research and evolving and interdisciplinary technologies are vital in exploiting opportunities.
The development of communication skills is needed to function effectively.
The student experience is strengthened by interaction with the business, industry and health care fields.
The development of leadership and entrepreneurial characteristics is essential.
Students, faculty, staff and volunteers all share the responsibility of learning.
Strong personal values are necessary for success.
The alumni strengthen the institution through their counsel, encouragement and support.
Freedom with responsibility is the foundation of free enterprise.
There is strength in diversity.
Global awareness must be reflected in all activities.
Initiation and acceptance of change is required to anticipate and capitalize on opportunities.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities, including but not limited to, the business, educational and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and to gain insights from them, and to provide them services of value.
MSOE Undergraduate General Education Requirements
MSOE’s academic degrees are designed to provide graduates with an education that will enable them to pursue productive professional careers. Yet, the purpose of a college education is more than just to help graduates obtain a good job. It should also assist graduates in becoming well-rounded individuals, capable of contributing to society at-large. Because of this, all MSOE students are expected to take course work not just in their major field of study, but also in mathematics, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities, in order to obtain a baccalaureate degree from MSOE. Courses taken outside of one’s major field of study are part of MSOE’s General Education requirements. All MSOE baccalaureate degrees are designed by the MSOE faculty to include credits needed to meet the General Education Requirements indicated below. However, in some cases, students have some choice in the courses they may use to meet the General Education Requirements specified as part of their degree tracks. The philosophy, expected learning outcomes, and coursework associated with MSOE’s General Education Requirements are discussed below.
Undergraduate General Education Philosophy
The integration of General Education Requirements into undergraduate programs at MSOE provides graduates with the cornerstone of knowledge, skills, and habits of mind necessary to be well-rounded individuals and lifelong learners. MSOE’s general education fosters skills in mathematical and scientific reasoning, communication and information literacy, and provides a foundation in culture and cultural values, ethics and integrity, as well as professional and social responsibilities. As an institution, MSOE cultivates a climate that fosters independent thinking, personal growth, and professional development.
Undergraduate Common Learning Outcomes
Upon graduation, MSOE undergraduates will be able to:
Articulate professional ethics
Collaborate effectively as a team member
Communicate effectively
Exhibit the mindset of a global citizen
Practice evidence-based decision-making
Use analysis and synthesis to solve problems
General Education Curriculum and Credit Requirements
A set of curriculum requirements for all undergraduate programs is defined to ensure student learning results in achieving the Common Learning Outcomes (CLOs).
A
minimum total of 49 credits
must be earned in the three topical areas of General Education (i.e. Mathematics and Science, Professional Preparedness, and Society and Culture). Further, each topical area within General Education has a minimum required set of courses and/or credits that must be met.
Mathematics and Science - 16 Credits Minimum
A. Mathematics
Students must have a
minimum of four credits
of college-level mathematics, including topical coverage of statistics.
B. Science
Students must have a
minimum of four credits
of college-level science courses, appropriate for the program curriculum. An associated lab must be part of the academic experience.
The
sum total
of the college-level courses in mathematics and science courses must meet the
minimum requirement of 16 credits
, which count towards the total General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
Professional Preparedness - 15 Credits Minimum
The Professional Preparedness components are delivered in an integrated manner through specific required courses.
At a minimum, students are required to complete the following courses:
GS 1001
Freshman Studies I (4 credits)
GS 1002
Freshman Studies II (4 credits)
GS 1003
Freshman Studies III (4 credits)
And, all students are required to take:
HU 332
Bioethics (3 credits), or
HU 432
Ethics for Professional Managers and Engineers (3 credits)
Together these courses provide
15 credits
towards meeting the total minimum General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
Humanities and Social Science - 15 Credits Minimum
Students are required to complete at least
six credits
of social science (SS) electives and at least
six credits
of electives chosen from humanities (HU) electives.
Students are required to take
three additional credits
, which can be chosen from among either the humanities or social science electives.
These courses provide
15 credits
towards meeting the total minimum General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
General Education Elective(s)-3 Credits Minimum
In addition to the credits required in the three categories outlined in Sections I through III above, each academic program may identify at least
three additional credits
in any one of the three categories (Mathematics and Science, Professional Preparedness, and Humanities and Social Science) to reach the minimum 49 credit level required for the General Education component, or allow students to select an elective to fulfill this requirement.
V.         Program Capstone Experience
Complementary to the General Education Requirements is the capstone requirement in all undergraduate programs. The capstone represents a cumulative experience, whereby students demonstrate the knowledge and skills achieved during their MSOE education, and is used as a vehicle for assessing the degree of attainment of the CLOs.
The MSOE Guarantee
MSOE offers students all the classes they need for graduation within four years. Undergraduate students who follow the program track of their major are assured to get the classes they need, when they need them. Additionally, MSOE graduates may refresh their knowledge by repeating any undergraduate course they took at MSOE, within three years of graduation.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Individual degree programs are accredited by appropriate professional accreditation organizations as noted in each corresponding program outline.
The Academic Year
The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses also are offered during the summer. For more information, please see the
Academic Calendar
portion of this catalog.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Medical Informatics Association
American Society for Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
College Board
College Entrance Examination Board
College Scholarship Service Assembly
Council for Advancement and Support of Education
National Academic Advising Association
National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance
US Green Building Council
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Wisconsin Health Information Exchange
Degree Programs
MSOE is dedicated to preparing graduates for productive and successful careers. Programs of study provide students with ample opportunities to progress in accordance with their individual abilities and professional goals. MSOE offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, noncredit courses and seminars, on-site and online educational offerings, and a variety of services that meet the needs of both full-time and part-time students, business and industry.
Students in a baccalaureate-level curriculum are encouraged to follow a carefully planned course progression track. These tracks, as well as program details, can be found in the “
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
” portion of this catalog. MSOE offers the following degree programs. The undergraduate programs are described fully in this catalog.
Bachelor’s Degrees
Actuarial Science
Architectural Engineering
Business Administration
Biomedical Engineering
BioMolecular Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Construction Management
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Nursing
Software Engineering
User Experience and Communication Design
Master’s Degrees
Architectural Engineering
Civil Engineering
Engineering
Engineering Management
Marketing and Export Management
MBA
MBA in Education Leadership
MBA in STEM Leadership
New Product Management
Nursing
Perfusion
MSOE also offers several double-major, dual-degree and study-abroad programs.
University Scholars Program
The University Scholars Program (USP) is MSOE’s honors curriculum. The benefits of participating in the program include having classes with like-minded students, greater opportunities to pursue individual interests, integration of diverse topics and more in-depth preparation for graduate school. Also, University Scholar students will participate in settings that will hone their leadership skills through project work, professional presentations, and interaction with regional leaders in various fields. The USP encourages independent, collaborative, and cooperative learning. The program is currently open only to students who meet the enrollment criteria. For more information call (414) 277-7363.
Study Abroad
Cultural and Educational Opportunities
MSOE’s study-abroad programs are once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to experience another culture in depth while taking college-level courses toward your degree. MSOE encourages its students to consider the opportunity these programs offer. Certain academic requirements are applicable - see program director for details.
Leaders in business and engineering today need a global perspective. For the future, we expect many employees will be required to have work experience abroad, some foreign language fluency, and be expected to understand the challenges that come with doing business in multiple markets. The MSOE graduate should prepare for this future by considering our study-abroad programs.
Germany
Electrical engineering
,
mechanical engineering
or
business administration
students may spend their junior year at the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, in Lübeck, Germany.
Industrial Engineering
students may go the spring quarter of their junior year. Founded in 1808, the university is similar to MSOE in that it is an applications-oriented institution. Situated near the Baltic Sea, the beautiful city of Lübeck is a center of commerce, industry and higher education, and offers a variety of recreational opportunities to young people. Much of its Middle Ages appearance is still intact in the older portion of town, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The MSOE program consists of two semesters at Lübeck, with extensive breaks to travel throughout Europe.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Participation does not delay progress toward graduation since all course work taken is integrated into the curricula of each MSOE program.
Upon graduation, students have the opportunity to receive two degrees, one from MSOE and another from Lübeck University of Applied Sciences.
In 2009, the International Exchange Program in Electrical Engineering at MSOE received the Innovative Program Award from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Heads Association (ECEDHA).
Czech Republic
Students may study for a semester at one of the oldest and most respected technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. Founded in 1707, CTU consists of six schools and seven institutes with some 16,000 students enrolled in engineering courses. Prague’s famed diversity of architectural styles, the distinctive bridges arching the Vltava River and narrow, winding cobbled streets make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities. The city is the social and cultural center of Central Europe with an entrepreneurial energy coursing through its streets.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students have access to CTU course work beyond their selected major. In consultation with their academic advisor, students are thus able to select the number of credits taken at CTU that will transfer for academic credit toward their MSOE degree. (Taking classes that will not transfer to a student’s major may delay his or her progress toward a degree.)
France
Students who participate in this study-abroad program will spend the month of June or July in Lille, France studying at Lille Catholic University. The program is open to all majors, and all courses are taught in English. Students can experience European culture while satisfying six credits (two classes) of humanities and/or engineering electives.
India
MSOE has an established relationships with Manipal University in India, a highly ranked university for engineering and technology. Students interested in studying in Manipal should discuss the possibility with the office of Study Abroad in Student Life.
Italy
Rader School of Business students have the opportunity to study abroad at Florence University of the Arts in Florence, Italy. Students have a wide variety of elective courses to choose from, including sports management/marketing, intercultural communication, international banking, sustainability and much more. The program is currently designed to run for two MSOE academic quarters (either Fall/Winter or Winter/Spring). In Italy, students will take five classes during one semester and then two classes during the January intercession.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students work with their program director/advisor to select courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
Students will have the opportunity to take international courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Short-term Opportunities
Each year, MSOE offers various courses that include a travel component. There are always new and exciting trips that are between one and two weeks during break periods. All trips have a faculty advisor to facilitate connections between the classroom and the global experience. Students have traveled to Munich, Germany, St. Petersburg, Russia and Havana, Cuba.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.