Two-degree Programs - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Continuing Studies and Outreach
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Two-degree Programs
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
MSOE offers several options for  students to earn a second degree that complements their major area of  study. Double-major options provide the opportunity for students to earn  a second bachelor’s degree within five years. Dual-degree options allow  students to earn a bachelor’s degree and master’s degree during a five  year period of study. Students have until their junior year to enroll in  a two-degree program, but they may begin earlier. If students decide to  enroll after their junior year has begun, they may still do so, but  late enrollment may extend completion of the program beyond five years.
Several double-major and dual-degree options have specified  curriculum tracks. Double-major options not listed below may be  available and will be governed by the policy detailed in this catalog:
Graduation Requirements
: Undergraduate Double-major Candidate. Students are encouraged to contact their program director for more details.
Double-major and Dual-degree Program Options
The following chart indicates which bachelor of science degree programs are eligible for double-major or dual-degree options:
Double-major programs
Dual-degree program
Bachelor of Science in Construction Management
Bachelor of Science in Business Management
Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication
Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
Master of Science in Structural Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering
X
X
X
X
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering
X
Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering
X
X
X
Bachelor of Science in Construction Management
X
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
X
X
X
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering
X
X
Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems
X
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
X
Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication
X
Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering and Construction Management
Combining architectural engineering and construction management  studies to earn two B.S. degrees in five years is a relatively popular  option … rightfully so! Blending design engineering skills with  construction project management abilities provides a powerful  combination of complementary professional disciplines for an industry  that increasingly seeks the most qualified employees for the most  challenging and rewarding work, then pays them well when they succeed.  Details about the AE
and CM
degrees are provided in an
earlier section
of this catalog.
Bachelor of Science in Business Management
MSOE’s business management program was established with the  understanding that business is driven by rapidly changing technology.  Since computers are the most important tools in business, MSOE’s  business management curricula is centered around the latest  technological developments in computers.
MSOE’s Rader School of Business offers a Bachelor of Science degree  in Business Management to complement an engineering degree through  MSOE’s double-major program. By taking business management courses  concurrently with engineering courses, students learn how to apply their  technical skills to real-world business and financial situations.
Approximately 15 courses in business management are taken  concurrently with a student’s chosen engineering curriculum to give the  student two degrees in five years. Some key classes in the program  include the following:
business and government relations,  e-business, organizational behavior, project management, employment law,  economics, accounting, finance, marketing, international business,  operations management, management policies and business communications.
When registering for a double-major program in engineering and  business management, students should see the chairman of the Rader  School of Business.
Freshman-to-Master’s Degree in Civil Engineering
One of the truly unique features of MSOE’s civil engineering (CVE)  program is that graduates can receive both their bachelor’s and master’s  degrees in five years. It has been designed to meet the new Body of  Knowledge for the 21
st
Century requirements developed by the  American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). At MSOE, civil engineering  course work provides a broad-based education touching on each of the  traditional areas within the civil engineering field. Students will then  gain in-depth proficiency and design skills in one of these three  areas: structural engineering, environmental engineering or water  resources engineering. For more information about the civil program, see  “
Civil Engineering B.S., M.S.
”.
Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication
MSOE’s technical communication program produces graduates who are  able to communicate technical knowledge effectively to others. There is a  growing need for technical communicators, since we live in an era of  technological change.
With MSOE’s double-major program, the engineer or business specialist  is trained to communicate facts about technical devices and operations  to the public, consumers, employers and co-workers in other areas of  specialty. Since courses in engineering and communication are taken  simultaneously, students may enjoy hands-on laboratory work in one class  and write about that experience in the next class. These are vital  skills for the engineer or business specialist in today’s rapidly  changing technological frontier.
Approximately 19 courses in technical communication are taken  concurrently with a student’s chosen engineering or business curriculum  for this option of the double-major program. Some key classes in the  technical communication program include the following:
report and proposal writing, desktop  publishing, mass communication, writing and editing for publication,  visual design techniques, research methods, speech, persuasive speech,  professional presentation skills, human communication, group discussion,  intercultural communication, interpersonal communication,  organizational communication, marketing communication and student  internship
The number of required technical communication courses in a  double-major program varies with the engineering or business program  selected. A course schedule can be designed for students upon commitment  to the program.
When preregistering for a double-major program that includes  technical communication, students should meet with the program director  for technical communication.
Master of Science in Structural Engineering
This program emphasizes building structural design and analysis, and  meets the needs of students who desire increased knowledge to design  modern building structural systems.
Courses focus on structural design topics such as advanced design of  structural steel members and systems. Courses on advanced structural  analysis are also presented to provide a broader theoretical background  for structural design. Students with an appropriate undergraduate degree  can complete the program in five years on a part-time basis or as  little as two years on a full-time basis. (See the MSOE
Graduate Catalog
for more information.)
The dual-degree program allows a student to obtain a bachelor’s  degree in architectural engineering and a master’s degree in structural  engineering in five years. The dual-degree program follows the first  three years of the undergraduate curriculum for the Bachelor of Science  in Architectural Engineering degree (structural specialty), and then  mixes undergraduate and graduate courses during the fourth and fifth  years. Upon completion of the fifth year, the bachelor’s and master’s  degrees are awarded simultaneously.
An alternative program allows a student to replace select  undergraduate level courses with graduate level courses during the  fourth year of the Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering  program (structural specialty). Upon completion of the bachelor’s  degree, the student can return and complete the Master of Science in  Structural Engineering program in one additional year on a full-time  basis, or take up to four years to complete the graduate program on a  part-time basis.
Interested students should meet with the Master of Science in  Structural Engineering program director during their sophomore and  junior years for further explanation of their options. Students apply to  the dual-degree program at the beginning of the Spring Quarter in their  junior year.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.