Student Financial Services  - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Graduate and Professional Education
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Academic Departments, Graduate Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Student Financial Services
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
S
tudent Accounts Office
F
inancial Aid Office
Alumni Tuition Discount
Tuition Adjustment Policies
Withdrawal- Return of Financial Aid
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-437
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Fax: (414) 277-4535
Email:
payments@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
Financial Aid Office
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-431
Phone: (414) 277-7223
Fax: (414) 277-6952
Email:
finaid@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office is available to assist graduate students in obtaining financial aid and exploring alternative loan products. We encourage all students to visit the
Financial Aid website
for more detailed information. If you have any questions or want further information, feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at (800) 778-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
.
How to Apply for Aid
You can apply for aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). You may do so online at
www.fafsa.gov
. MSOE’s FAFSA school code is 003868. If you wish to apply via a paper application, please contact the Department of Education at (800) 4-FED-AID.
Eligibility
Admitted graduate students who are not in default or do not owe a repayment on any federal aid program are eligible for need-based and non need-based federal student loans. A student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per quarter to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans.
Please note the non-credit workshops offered through Graduate and Professional Education are not eligible for financial aid. Further note that nondegree and nonmatriculated students are not eligible for financial aid.
Graduate Tuition and Fees (2016-2017 Academic Year)
Graduate tuition
$760 per credit
Technology Fee
Part Time undergraduate and graduate students, registered for 1-11 credits, will be charged $12.50 per credit. Graduate students can opt into the laptop rental program and are charged $100 per quarter. The technology fee supports information technology, printing services, network usage, and other related services.
Infrastructure and Facilities Fee
$150/quarter (9 credits or above)
Parking Permit (per quarter)
Standard Permit
$150
Motorcycle Permit
$75
Evening/Weekend Parking
Free (must have permit)
Audit fee
75% of the graduate tuition rate
Continuation Fee
(
GC 899
)
$150
Graduation fee
$75
Directed study
$1,191 per credit
(Directed study fees must be paid in full at the time of registration. This fee is nonrefundable even if directed study is not completed.)
Enrollment deposit
$250
The enrollment deposit applies only to M.S. Perfusion students, and should not be paid unless you have been formally accepted to MSOE. This fee is
nonrefundable
and will be credited to your first-quarter tuition bill should you choose to attend MSOE.
Returned check fee
$30
Checks received in payment of tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Bookstore, which are returned by the bank as “Non Sufficient Funds”, “Payment Stopped” or “Account Closed” will result in a charge of an additional $30 NSF check handling fee. If two checks are returned from the bank, the student will lose his or her check-writing privileges in the Bookstore and their student account will be annotated to require all future payments to be in cash, cashier’s check, money order or credit card.
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition, fees and policies at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Due Dates
Charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes. Students who have settled in full all obligations to MSOE will be issued earned certificates, diplomas and transcripts, and will be permitted to register for the subsequent term. A student must have a zero balance to register for the next quarter.
If payment is not received by Monday of the third week, a late payment fee may accrue at a rate of one percent per month (12 percent A.P.R.) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a late payment fee on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file in the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a late payment fee on those charges covered by a company or agency.
If a student does not make payments when due, MSOE reserves the right to require full payment of the subsequent quarter before the student may register for that quarter.
Fall 2016 due date:
September 19, 2016
Winter 2016 due date:
December 12, 2016
Spring 2017 due date:
March 20, 2017
Summer 2017 due date:
June 19, 2017 for Sub Term 1 and 2
August 7, 2017 for Sub Term 3
Agency or Employer Sponsorship of Students
Under these plans, a student’s tuition (and other fees, if applicable) may be paid by an employer, outside agency, or embassy. Eligible students must submit the following:
Proof of eligibility from employer
Copy of company policy, if applicable
Completed Payment Plan Agreement Form
Completed Financial Responsibility Form
Under agency or employer sponsorship options, the student is ultimately responsible for the term’s tuition, fees, room and board, and all other assessed charges. Payment in full is due within 45 days from  the last day of the term. If the student’s agency or employer fails to pay the student is required to pay in full immediately. Late fees of 1% a month will be assessed beginning on the 30th day of delinquency on the total unpaid balance. If payment is not made within 45 days of grades being posted, registration for current and subsequent terms bay be cancelled.
H.E.L.P. Payment Plan
MSOE’s in-house payment plan, H.E.L.P. (Helping Everyone to Learn and Pay), offers students monthly payment plans for amounts due. Students determine how much of their balance they wish to divide into monthly payments. Any amount not covered by H.E.L.P. will be due when billed. For further information, contact the Student Accounts Office at (414) 277-7130.
Financial Aid Disbursement
All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
If you have more financial aid disbursed to your account than charges on your account, you will have a credit balance. Credit balance refund checks will be processed after all financial aid has been disbursed to your account and can be picked up in Student Accounts after receiving email notification. Please allow 10 days for credit balance refund checks to be processed.
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Bookstore, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly invoice. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the bookstore when purchasing their textbooks. You are able to charge your books to your student account during the three weeks before the term begins through the second Tuesday of the term. Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Student Invoices
All registered students receive an email notification when their bill is available to view online. For any student billing questions, please contact the Student Accounts office at (414) 277-7130 or via email at
payments@msoe.edu.
Please remember that you can always view your statement online at
my.msoe.edu
and you are responsible for all charges. MSOE will no longer send students paper invoices. Students can authorize third party access to view invoices online at
my.msoe.edu
.
Dual-degree Program Charges
Dual-degree programs offer the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in a dual-degree program should complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as an undergraduate student. Students are encouraged not to graduate with a bachelor’s degree after their fourth year because they are eligible to receive undergraduate financial aid for their fifth year.
Full-time students (12+ credits) accepted into the Freshman-to-Master’s program in Architectural Engineering or Civil Engineering are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid, even though they may be taking graduate courses. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the undergraduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Students enrolled less than full-time (1-11 credits) in an approved dual-degree program will be charged $630/credit.
Alumni Tuition Discount
Effective Fall 2016, MSOE alumni are eligible for a discounted tuition of $650 per credit for the following graduate program:
Master of Science in Nursing-Health Care Systems Management (MSN)
In this case, alumni include anyone who has graduated from MSOE with a bachelor’s or master’s degree. To be eligible, students must apply for and be accepted into the MSN program. There is no GPA or location stipulation. In order to register for any classes at MSOE, a student must have a zero balance on their student account or be a participant in an approved MSOE payment plan. For more information, contact the Financial Aid Office at
finaid@msoe.edu
or (800) 778-7223.
Tuition Adjustment
Tuition adjustments will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office.
Tuition Adjustment Schedule for Withdrawal from MSOE
Tuition refunds will only be granted to students who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition refund, owe 20%
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition refund, owe 60%
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition refund, owe 80%
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
No tuition refund will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the quarter.
Withdrawal- Return of Financial Aid
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
If a recipient of Title IV aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required by law to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically-related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.
The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed any academically-related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the quarter as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed the quarter.
The amount of federal aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Any funds not earned will be returned in the following order:
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the quarter, the student may owe a repayment to the university. A bill will be sent to the student for any balance due as a result of returning financial aid funds.
Please contact the Financial Aid Office before withdrawing to determine what aid will be returned and what you may owe MSOE.
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete a minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) as well as maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Quantitative
In accordance with federal regulations, students must successfully complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. The maximum time frame to complete a degree is within 150 percent of the published length of the degree program. To determine the published length of a degree program, please refer to the
Degree Programs and Certificates
section in this
Academic Catalog
.
Students will be monitored at the end of the each academic term including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Please note:
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one of each term.
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Attempted credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-C), earned Fs, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.
Completed credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-C).
MSOE scholarships, grants and loans are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (18 full-time terms).
Qualitative
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed at the end of each term of attendance including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 3.00 CGPA at the time of review will receive a financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 3.00 CGPA.
If the student reestablishes a 3.00 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 3.00 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Appeals
Students may appeal the suspension of their financial aid eligibility. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office, addressed to the director. The director, in consultation with Financial Aid Office staff members, will review the appeal and notify the student in writing regarding the appeal. Students may file an appeal on the following basis: The death of a relative, injury or illness of the student, or other documented extenuating circumstances. Students must also indicate why the student failed to make satisfactory progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. Students are limited to two suspension appeal requests while attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved will be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must reestablish a 3.00 CGPA and/or complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
MSOE’s Academic Plan will be developed on an individual basis which may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, Raider Center for Academic Success and/or MSOE Counseling Service. Failure to meet the requirements of MSOE’s Academic Plan will result in suspension of financial aid the next term of attendance.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.