Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Academic Departments, Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Administration of MSOE
Graduate Faculty
Administration of MSOE
HERMANN VIETS, Ph.D.
President
FREDERICK BERRY, D.E.
Vice President of Academics
PATRICK J. COFFEY
Vice President for Student Life
FRANK HABIB ‘09
Vice President of Development
ARMUND JANTO
Vice President of Finance and CFO
TIMOTHY VALLEY
Vice President of Enrollment Management
A current listing of MSOE’s officers, Regents, Regent Emeriti and Corporation members may be obtained from the President’s Office or the Vice President of Academic’s Office.
Graduate Faculty
A
|
B
|
C
|
D
| E |
F
|
G
|
H
|
I
|
J
|
K
|
L
|
M
|
N
|
O
|
P
| Q |
R
|
S
|
T
|
U
|
V
|
W
| X |
Y
|
Z
Kishore C. Acharya,
Adjunct Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Calcutta University, India; MS Physics, Case Western Reserve University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University; Senior System Development Engineer, General Electric Medical Systems Division;
areas of specialization: image and signal processing, design and simulation of computational systems, design and simulation of high-speed data acquisition systems, control systems.
Brian Akers,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Rader School of Business; AB Chemistry, Kenyon College; MD, Tufts University School of Medicine; Juris Doctor, Stanford Law School;
areas of specialization: medical ethics, clinical research ethics, regulation of human-subject research, ethics of medical informatics, business ethics, corporate litigation, intellectual property litigation.
G. Woodrow Adkins,
Uihlein/Spitzer Chair of Entrepreneurship; MSOE Regent; Managing Partner, FCF Partners LP; Chairman, CEO and Owner, Adkins Holdings LLC; BS University of Maryland.
G. Hossein Almassi,
M.D.
, Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Medical College of Wisconsin.
Matt J. Anderson,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Mechanical Engineering, University of Minnesota; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, University of Minnesota;
areas of specialization: experimental and computational fluid mechanics, combustion and internal combustion engines.
Stephan Arant,
Lecturer, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil Engineering, Marquette University; MS Civil and Environmental Engineering, UW Madison; Registered Professional Engineer in Wisconsin; Diplomate-American Academy of Environmental Engineers;
areas of specialization: biological wastewater treatment, nutrient removal processes, facility planning, municipal engineering.
Aaron Armstrong,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Chemical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Manufacturing Systems Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Business, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Gary P. Barnas,
M.D.
, Associate Professor of Medicine at the Medical College of Wisconsin; BS, Northwestern University; M.D., Northwestern University Medical School;
areas of specialization: medical informatics, clinical decision support and clinical information systems in the VA Health System, the care of diabetes, hypertension, and lipid disorders and preventive medicine and cancer screening.
William Barnekow,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, BS Applied Science and Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, MS Electrical Engineering, University of California-Berkeley;
areas of specialization: digital logic and embedded systems.
Cynthia W. Barnicki,
Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Program Director, BS Engineering; BS Metallurgical Engineering, Ohio State University; MS Metallurgical Engineering, Ohio State University; Ph.D. Metallurgical Engineering, Ohio State University;
areas of specialization: metallic materials, polymers, problem solving, design process.
Steven L. Barnicki,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Ohio State University; MS Electrical Engineering, Ohio State University; Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering, Ohio State University;
areas of specialization: computer engineering, program design, digital signal processing, biomedical engineering.
Thomas P. Barragry, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Steven C. Bialek,
Associate Professor and Chair, Rader School of Business; Program Director, Business; Program Director, Management; BS Communications, University of Wisconsin-Green Bay, MA Administrative Leadership, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D. Continuing and Adult Vocational Education, University of Wisconsin-Madison;
areas of specialization: research writing, organizational behavior, project management, strategic planning.
James Blaha,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, AAS Electronic Communications Technology, Milwaukee School of Engineering; BS Bio-environmental Engineering Technology, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Engineering Management, Milwaukee School of Engineering;
areas of specialization: communication standard and electromagnetics.
Jeffrey J. Blessing,
Professor, Rader School of Business; Program Director, BS Management Information Systems, and Kern Fellow of Entrepreneurship; BS Computer Science and Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, San Diego; Ph.D. Computer Science and Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee;
areas of specialization: algorithms, data structures, programming languages, operating systems, databases, network design, modeling and simulation, artificial intelligence, expert systems, and enterprise systems.
Jon K. Borowicz
, Associate Professor, General Studies; BA Philosophy, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MA Philosophy, Johns Hopkins University; Ph.D. Philosophy, Johns Hopkins University;
areas of specialization: applied and professional ethics, philosophical practice.
Kent Brodie,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business; Information Systems Project Manager, Department of Physiology, Medical College of Wisconsin; BS Computer Science, University of Minnesota; MSMI, Milwaukee School of Engineering/Medical College of Wisconsin.
Edward W. Chandler,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Electrical Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Purdue University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: communication systems, satellite communications, spread spectrum, telecommunications and networking, control systems.
John D. Crouch, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Christopher J. Damm,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS, University of Minnesota; MS, University of Minnesota; MS, Brown University; Ph.D., University of California-Berkeley;
areas of specialization: energy generation and cogeneration, advanced energy technologies, motor vehicle pollution, laser diagnostics, accident reconstruction engineering.
Karl H. David,
Associate Professor, Mathematics; Chairman, Mathematics; BA, University of Richmond; MA, University of Massachusetts;
areas of specialization: real analysis, probability and combinatorics
Richard A. DeVries,
Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Engineering and Building Construction; Program Director, MS Structural Engineering; BS, University of Texas, Austin; MS, University of California Berkeley; Ph.D., University of Texas, Austin; J.D., Marquette University Law School; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin; Member of Wisconsin Bar Association;
areas of specialization: reinforced concrete design, masonry design, timber design, computer-aided structural design.
Francis X. Downey, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
James Drought,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Physical Geology, Carroll College; MS Hydrology and Geosciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee;
areas of specialization include: brown fields remediation of soils and groundwaters, environmental site assessments, asbestos identification surveys.
Eric Durant,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Program Director, BS Computer Engineering; BS Electrical Engineering and BS Computer Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MSE Electrical Engineering, University of Michigan; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of Michigan;
areas of specialization: signal processing, with emphasis on image coding, perceptual tuning, fast algorithms, hearing, and audio, genetic algorithms.
Kathy S. Faggiani,
Professor, Rader School of Business; BA Economics, University of Wisconsin Eau Claire; MBA, UW-Milwaukee; Ph.D. Information Systems, University of Colorado at Boulder;
areas of specialization: management information systems, software development/software engineering, emerging system modeling and development methods, organizational and societal impacts of computing, small business use of information technology, innovative use of technology in computing education, and academic bigotry/disciplinary elitism in higher education.
William C. Farrow,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Program Director, BS Mechanical Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, Purdue University; MS Mechanical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, Marquette University;
areas of specialization: engineering mechanics, mechanical design.
Larry Fennigkoh,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering Technology, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Engineering Management, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Ph.D. Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Registered Professional Engineer in the States of Wisconsin and Nebraska; Certified Clinical Engineer;
areas of specialization: medical statistics, anatomy and physiology, medical instrumentation, biomechanics.
John L. Ficken,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, Iowa State University; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: controls, fluid power.
Donald Gallo,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil Engineering, Tri State University; MS Civil Engineering, University of Akron; JD, Marquette University; Attorney, Michael Best & Friedrich;
area of specialization: environmental law.
John D. Gassert,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: biophysical transport, medical statistics, modeling of physiological systems, medical instrumentation.
Ronald J. Gerrits,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Program Director, Master of Science in Perfusion; BS Biomedical Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Ph.D. Physiology, Medical College of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: physiology, medical sciences, biology.
William Gonwa,
Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Civil Engineering, University of Kentucky; Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in Wisconsin and Illinois;
areas of specialization: stormwater management, hydrology, hydraulics, combined sewer overflow abatement, water project permitting, erosion control, control of non-point source, pollution, data management.
Matthew Hietpas,
Assistant Professor of Clinical Perfusion; BS Biomedical Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Medical Informatics, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certificate, Cardiovascular Perfusion, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certification, American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion; Licensed Perfusionist, State of Wisconsin, Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
Robert Hankes,
Adjunct Professor, Rader School of Business; BA University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ‘70; MBA University of Wisconsin-Whitewater ‘77
Terry Hoffmann,
Adjunct Professor, Rader School of Business; BS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Engineering Management, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Manager, Global Product Marketing, Johnson Controls; Senior Member, Association of Energy Engineers, Founding Member, Energy Marketing Society;
areas of specialization: international business, marketing.
Mark Hornick,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Mechanics, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering/Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Paul A. Hudec,
Associate Professor, Rader School of Business; BA, Saint Francis De Sales College; MBA, Graduate Theological Foundation; MAPS, Saint Francis Seminary; MBA, Marquette University; Ph.D., School of Education, Marquette University; CNA, Novell Corp. Inc.; CFO Department of Education;
areas of specialization: information technology and network systems, management, finance and accounting, strategic planning, philosophy and ethics, online education, international business, thesis and capstone projects.
H. Peter Huttelmaier,
Professor Emeritus, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; Dipl. Ing. University of Stuttgart; MS, Concordia University, Montreal; Ph.D., Concordia University, Montreal; Registered Professional Engineering in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: structural steel, cold-formed steel, structural stability, finite element analysis.
Olga Imas,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Biomedical Engineering, MSOE; Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering and Functional Imaging, Marquette University;
areas of specialization: medical imaging and digital signal processing.
Deborah L. Jackman,
Professor and Chairperson, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department; BS Chemistry, Marquette University; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin; Certified Energy Manager (CEM), LEED APTM;
areas of specialization: industrial water treatment, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics and heat transfer, energy management.
Jovan Jevtic,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Dipl. Ing. In Electrical Engineering, University of Belgrade, Yugoslavia; MS Electrical Engineering, Ohio State University, Columbus; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Ohio State University, Columbus;
areas of specialization: electromagnetic and RF/microwave engineering.
Kirsten Kallies,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BA German Culture and Philology, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; BS Biomedical Engineering, MSOE; MS Perfusion, MSOE; Certified Clinical Perfusionist; Licensed Perfusionist in the State of Wisconsin.
Jay Karls,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee with a minor in Chemistry; Registered Professional Engineer in Wisconsin and North Carolina;
areas of specialization: environmental safety and health assessments, compliance, support services environmental chemistry.
Kenneth E. Kaszubowski,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil Engineering, Purdue University; MS Civil Engineering, Purdue University; MBA, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer; Owner and Principal, Sigma Environmental Services Inc.;
areas of specialization: environmental engineering, construction management, strategic planning and financial analysis, project and program management, manufacturing process design.
Richard Kelnhofer,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Program Director, Electrical Engineering Technology BS  Electrical Engineering, UW-Milwaukee; MS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: communication systems and information coding theory.
Leonard H. Kleinman, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Jeffrey B. Korn,
Professor, Physics and Chemistry; BS Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee;
areas of specialization: optics, nuclear radiation and radiation safety, automotive electronics.
Stanley Kosmatka,
Adjunct Professor, Rader School of Business; BS History/Math, University of Wisconsin; MS Engineering Management, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Marketing consultant and owner of the firm The Kosmatka Group, Inc.
Tara Kowalski,
Lecturer, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Chemical Engineering, Michigan Technological University; MS Environmental Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering;
areas of specialization: industrial water and wastewater treatment, bench-scale and pilot-scale treatability studies.
Patricia Kramer,
Lecturer, Rader School of Business; Marketing Management; BS Marketing, Saint Joseph’s University-Philadelphia; MBA, Butler University Indianapolis; President BrandBlazers, LLC;
areas of specialization: brand management, product development, cross functional team management, project management, and organizational development.
David C. Kress, M.D.,
Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
Subha K. Kumpaty,
Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Program Director, Master of Science in Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, REC Trichy, University of Madras; MS Mechanical Engineering, REC Warangal, Kakatiya University; Ph.D. Engineering Science-Mechanical Engineering, University of Mississippi; D. Min. Tyndale Theological Seminary; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: energy systems, thermofluids, heat transfer, numerical modeling, applications in solid freeform fabrication, system dynamics, vibration control.
Thomas Labus,
Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS Aeronautical Engineering, Purdue University; MS Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, University of Illinois; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Illinois;
areas of specialization: fluid power, high pressure water jets, fluid mechanics, mechanical design/analysis.
Jeffrey LaMack,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS, Ohio State University; Ph.D., Duke University;
areas of specialization: biological transport phenomena, cell biology, physiology, biological modeling, computer programming.
Jerry Lieberthal,
Adjunct Associate Professor, School of Business; BS Applied Math/Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Deanna Leitzke,
PE, Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management, BS Milwaukee School of Engineering ‘98; MS Milwaukee School of Engineering ‘08
R. Eric Lilly, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Medical College of Wisconsin.
Mahmoud Maamouri,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Structural Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Registered Structural Engineer in the State of Illinois; Registered Professional Engineer in the States of Wisconsin, New York and Mississippi;
areas of specialization: precast/prestressed concrete, reinforced concrete, steel spaceframe structures, probabilistic methods.
Jeffrey A. MacDonald,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Fisheries and Wildlife, Michigan State University; MS Biology, Central Michigan University; Certified Wastewater Laboratory Analyst; Microbiologist, Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District;
areas of specialization: microscopic evaluation of aerobic waste systems, microbiological analysis of wastewater processes including biosolids, development and assessment of microbiological methods used for determining the quality of surface waters, groundwater, wastewater, biosolids.
Mohammad Mahinfalah,
Professor, MechanicalEngineering; BS Iowa State University; MS IowaState University; Ph.D. Iowa  State University;
areas of specialization:  experimental mechanics, fracture mechanics, and composite materials.
Francis Mahuta Jr.,
Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; Program Director, Environmental Engineering; Program Director, Master of Science Civil Engineering; BS Engineering Mechanics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Civil Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Juris Doctor, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: wastewater treatment, environmental chemistry.
A. James Mallmann,
Professor, Physics and Chemistry; BS Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D. Materials Science, Marquette University;
areas of specialization: solar energy theory and applications, physics of semiconductor devices, optics and photonics, molecular spectroscopy.
Cynthia Mand,
Lecturer, Rader School of Business; BA Communications, Central College; MBA, UW- Milwaukee;
areas of specialization: quality management, Lean methodology, project management, and human resource management.
Carol Mannino,
Associate Professor, Rader School of Business; BBA Southern Methodist; MPA University of Texas; Registered CPA in the State of Wisconsin.
Katie A. McCarthy,
Lecturer, Rader School of Business; BS Computer Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; BS Technical Communication, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Medical Informatics, Milwaukee School of Engineering/Medical College of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: health care information systems, quality improvement and management, technical communication, human-computer interaction, bayesian networks.
Monica L. McDonald, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
Russell Meier,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, BS Computer Engineering, Iowa State University; MS Computer Engineering, Iowa State University; Ph.D. Computer Engineering, Iowa State University;
areas of specialization: evolvable hardware and evolutionary computation, computer architecture, digital systems design, embedded systems.
Kathleen Meizio,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Rader School of Business; BS University of Wisconsin-Madison ‘72; MS University of Wisconsin-Madison ‘85, ‘87; Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison ‘91
Richard R. Mett,
Associate Professor, Physics and Chemistry; BS Electrical Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Electrical Engineering, University of California-Berkeley; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Adjunct Associate Professor, Biophysics Research Institute, Medical College of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: microwaves, electron spin resonance spectroscopy, electromagnetic radiation, antennas, wave propagation and absorption, plasmas, high voltage, plasma processing, magnetic confinement of plasmas, magnetic resonance imaging; publications: 18; patents: 6.
Michael E. Mitchell, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin.
Joerg Mossbrucker,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Kaiserslautern; Dipl. Ing. Electrical Engineering, University of Kaiserslautern; Dr. Ing. Electrical Engineering, University of Kaiserslautern; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Michigan State University;
areas of specialization: analog electronics, microcontrollers, robotics, sensors/actuators, CVD-diamond films.
Joseph C. Musto,
Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Program Director, BS Mechanical Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, Clarkson University; MS Mechanical Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute;
areas of specialization: design of machinery, modeling, control and simulation of electromechanical systems, reliability assessment of intelligent machines and systems, robotics.
Bharathwaj Muthuswamy,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of California Berkeley; MS Electrical Engineering, University of California Berkeley; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of California Berkeley;
areas of specialization: nonlinear dynamical systems and embedded systems.
Kimbel Nap,
Adjunct Professor, Rader School of Business; AAS, Milwaukee School of Engineering; BS, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MBA, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D., Cardinal Stritch; President, LEM USA;
areas of specialization: entrepreneurship, marketing, simulations, international business and new product management.
Leah Newman,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Alfred C. Nicolosi, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Medical College of Wisconsin.
Daniel P. O’Hair, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Carolyn “Kelly” Ottman,
Associate Professor, Rader School of Business, Program Coordinator, Graduate Management Programs, Fox Valley outreach location; BS Therapeutic Recreation, UW-La Crosse; MPA/MA Public Policy and Administration and Health Service Administration, UW-Madison; Ph.D. Adult Education with an emphasis on Organizational Leadership, UW-Madison;
areas of specialization: organizational behavior, management, leadership, continuous improvement, team dynamics and global business.
John E. Pakkala,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS, Michigan State University; MS, Michigan Technological University; Ph.D., Michigan Technological University;
areas of specialization: controls, electromechanical systems, fluid power, manufacturing engineering, systems modeling, programming and analysis.
Matthew A. Panhans,
Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Chairman, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Mechanical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Materials Science, Marquette University; Ph.D. Materials Science, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: electronic ceramics, failure analysis, metallurgy, scanning electron microscopy.
Michael Payne,
Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business, BA Communication, Bowling Green State University; MA Communication, University of Cincinnati; Ph.D., University of Arizona;
areas of specialization: marketing, market research, strategic management, research and writing.
Owe G. Petersen,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin; MS Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania;
areas of specialization: integrated circuits, electromagnetics, semiconductor technology, circuit design, computer modeling, quality, project management, product development, design, manufacturing.
Vince Prantil,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University; MS Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University;
areas of specialization: numerical methods, finite element analysis, material modeling, constitutive modeling.
Kathy Princer,
Assistant Professor of Clinical Perfusion, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University; MBA, Marquette University;
areas of specialization: intra-aortic balloon pumps, ventricular assist devices, continuous renal replacement therapies and pacemakers.
Cory J. Prust,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, MSOE; Ph.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University;
areas of specialization: statistical signal processing, computational structural biology, array signal processing, radar systems.
Christopher H. Raebel,
Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Architectural Engineering, MSOE; MS Architectural Engineering, Penn State; Ph.D. Civil Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the States of Wisconsin, Florida, Minnesota, Michigan, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and South Carolina; SE in Illinois and Massachusetts;
areas of specialization: steel structural design, building serviceability, structural analysis and design, dynamic testing of floor systems.
Stephen Rather,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS Applied Geophysics, Michigan Technological University; MBA Finance, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering;
areas of specialization: energy, thermodynamics, heat transfer.
Kathi D. Ried,
Lecturer, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Geology, Texas A&M University; MS Geological Sciences, Ohio State University; Professional Geologist in the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota and Indiana.
Robert Rizza,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS, Illinois Institute of Technology; MS, Illinois Institute of Technology; Ph.D., Illinois Institute of Technology;
areas of specialization: composite materials- fracture, impact modeling; elasticity, finite element modeling, machine design, biomechanics, numerical methods.
Luis A. Rodriguez,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Mechanical Engineering, University of California-San Diego; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, University of California-Irvine;
areas of specialization: control and motion planning of robotic and multibody dynamic systems.
Sheila Ross,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering and Computational Mathematics, Marquette University; MSE Electrical and Computer Engineering, UW-Madison; Ph.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering, UW-Madison;
areas of specialization: dynamic systems, uncertain systems and digital design.
Darrin Rothe, M.D.,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering, Arizona State University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Arizona.
David Sachs,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Wisconsin- Madison; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Minnesota-Minneapolis; Registered Professional Engineer (48 states), NCEES Advanced Professional Engineering Certification; Manager of Engineering -Industrial Systems, Oscar J. Boldt Construction Co.;
areas of specialization: modeling and simulation of dynamic systems, digital and automatic control theory, digital signal processing, numerical analysis.
Michael A. Savitt, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
Matt Schaefer,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS, Marquette University; MS, Marquette University; Ph.D., Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: material science, mechanics.
Walter Schilling,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS, Ohio Northern University; MS, University of Toledo; Ph.D., University of Toledo;
areas of specialization: embedded systems, software reliability, real-time systems, software engineering.
David J. Schmitz,
Instructor, Rader School of Business, Program Director, MS Construction and Business Management, MS Engineering Management, MS Marketing and Export Management, MS New Product Management; BA Accounting, St. Norbert College; MBA Weatherhead School of Management, Case Western Reserve University;
areas of specialization: operations management, quality, project management and ERP systems.
Michael Schuck,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Chemical Engineering, Wayne State University; MS Environmental Engineering, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: air pollution control, chemical process scale-up, air emissions modeling.
Mark J. Sebern,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: software engineering, graphical user interfaces, computer hardware, operating systems, analog and digital design.
Gary Shimek,
Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business, Director of Walter Schroeder Library; BA English and History, Carrol College; MLIS Library and Information Science, UW-Milwaukee;
areas of specialization: information usage in organizations, intellectual property, knowledge management of explicit knowledge resources, organizational record retention and documentation, documentation standards, bibliometrics, secondary business- and management-related research, patents and patent research, writing.
Mark Simmons,
Assistant Professor of Clinical Perfusion; BS Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Perfusion, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certification, American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion; Licensed Perfusionist, State of Wisconsin: Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
J.W. Spear,
Adjunct Lecturer, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BA Chemistry and Biology, Rutgers University ‘63; MS Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania ‘70; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin.
Douglas C. Stahl,
Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BSE Princeton University; MS University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: structural analysis, structural stability, structural dynamics, seismic and wind design, wood and masonry design.
John A. Starr,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison;
areas of specialization: communication systems, control systems.
Robert A. Strangeway,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering Technology, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Marquette University;
areas of specialization: microwave and millimeter wave components and systems, low phase-noise oscillators, electromagnetics, microwave bridges in EPR spectroscopy.
Irene Strohbeen,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business; BA Chemistry and Mathematics, Lawrence University; MS Chemical Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;
areas of specialization: new product management, innovation management, strategic marketing.
Michael J. Swedish
, Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS Mechanical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Mechanical Engineering, Marquette University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: energy systems.
Thomas Swiontek,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, BS Electrical Engineering, Marquette University, Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Marquette University.
Christopher C. Taylor,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, South Dakota State University; MS Electrical Engineering, Purdue University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Purdue University;
areas of specialization: engineering education, image processing, human perception, computer graphics.
Alfred J. Tector M.D.,
Professor of Clinical Perfusion; Medical Director, Master of Science in Perfusion; BA, Utica College; MD, St. Louis University Medical School; MS, University of Iowa; Licensed to Practice Medicine and Surgery in the State of Wisconsin; American Board of Surgery; American Board of Thoracic Surgery; Regent, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Gerald Thomas,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Physics, California Institute of Technology; MS Physics, University of California-Los Angeles; Ph.D. Physics, University of California-Los Angeles;
areas of specialization: decision theory, game theory, computer and software engineering and physics.
Bruce R. Thompson,
Professor, Rader School of Business; BA Physics, Amherst College; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania; MBA University of Chicago; Former president, Milwaukee Board of School Directors;
areas of specialization: strategic planning, business models, supply chain management and school effectiveness models.
Matthew P. Tittl,
Assistant Professor of Clinical Perfusion; Master of Science in Perfusion; BS Engineering, Concordia University Wisconsin; BS Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University; MS Perfusion, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certification, American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion; Licensed Perfusionist, State of Wisconsin; Midwest Heart Surgery Institute.
Hue Tran,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: computer simulation, parallel processing, artificial intelligence, machine vision, digital system design, software engineering, control systems, microprocessor systems, digital signal processing.
Matthew Traum,
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Mechanical Engineering and BS Aerospace Engineering, University of California-Irvine; MS Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology;
areas of specialization: sustainable and renewable energy (biomass, solar, wind), energy-thermal-fluid sciences, micro- and nano-scale characterization and fabrication, engineering metrology.
John S. Traxler,
Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business; Program Director, Master of Science Medical Informatics; BS, University of Wisconsin-Madison; M.D., Medical College of Wisconsin; MBA, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MSMI, MSOE/MCW.
Charles S. Tritt,
Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Interim Program Director, Biomedical Engineering, BS Chemical Engineering, Ohio State University; MS Biomedical Engineering, Ohio State University; Ph.D. Chemical Engineering, Ohio State University;
areas of specialization: applications of thermodynamics, mass and heat transfer and momentum transport (particularly those involving adsorption, ion exchange and permeation) to medical equipment and biological systems, medical device and biological process modeling involving the numerical solution of systems of ODEs and PDEs, anatomy and physiology, biophysical transport, biomaterials.
Dennis Tronca,
Adjunct Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department; BS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison;
areas of specialization: designing components from plastic.
Matthew Trussoni,
Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BS Milwaukee School of Engineering ‘03; MS University of Miami ‘05; Ph.D. University of Miami ‘09; Registered Architected and Registered Professional Engineer in the state of Florida;
areas of specialization: architecture, structures, materials.
Robert Turney,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
James S. Tweddel, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin.
Benjamin Uphoff,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Computer Information Systems, UW-Stevens Point; MS Computer Science, UW-Madison; Ph.D. Computer Science, Iowa State University
Jay F. Urbain,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Biology, Northeastern Illinois University; BS Engineering, Computer and Information Systems, University of Illinois Chicago; MS Computer Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology; MBA, UW-Madison; Ph.D. Computer Science, Illinois Institute of Technology;
areas of specialization: information retrieval, text and data mining, statistical modeling, bioinformatics, natural language processing, and machine learning.
Patrick L. VanderWal,
Assistant Professor, Clinical Perfusion; BS Grand Valley State University; MS Perfusion, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certification, American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion; Licensed Perfusionist, State of Wisconsin; Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin.
Shannon Voborsky,
Assistant Professor of Clinical Perfusion; Clinical Program Director, BS Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin Madison; MS Perfusion, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Certification, American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion; Licensed Perfusionist, State of Wisconsin; Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Thomas S. Wanke,
Adjunct Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; Associate Director, Applied Technology Center; Director, Fluid Power Institute; BS Mechanical Engineering Technology -Fluid Power Option, Milwaukee School of Engineering; MS Engineering - Fluid Power Option, Milwaukee School of Engineering; Fluid Power Society Certified Fluid Power Specialist; Fluid Power Society Certified Fluid Power Engineer;
areas of specialization: fluid power system design, troubleshooting and failure analysis; fluids, filtration and contamination control.
Blake Wentz,
Assistant Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; Program Director, Construction Management; BS University of Nebraska-Lincoln ‘99; MS University of Nebraska-Lincoln ‘04;
areas of specialization: construction project management, sustainable construction systems, mechanical systems, construction scheduling.
Dennis L. Wanless,
Adjunct Professor, Rader School of Business; BS Education, UW-Madison; MS Educational Administration, University of Northern Colorado; Ph.D. Educational Administration, UWMadison;
areas of specialization: technology, networking, client/server computing.
Paul H. Werner, M.D.,
Adjunct Professor, MS Perfusion Program, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; St. Luke’s Medical Center, Cardiovascular Surgery Associates.
Jay Wierer,
Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS University of Wisconsin-Madison; MS University of Wisconsin-Madison;
areas of specialization: digital communications, digital signal processing, rare event simulation, information theory.
Katherine Wikoff,
Associate Professor, General Studies; BA Political Science, Wright State University; MA English, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D. English, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee;
areas of specialization: technical communication, business and professional writing, rhetoric, cultural studies, literature.
Stephen Williams,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Chair, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; Program Director, Electrical Engineering; BS Electrical Engineering, University of Missouri-Columbia; MS Electrical Engineering, University of Missouri-Kansas City; Ph.D. Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Missouri-Columbia;
areas of specialization: control systems, electromechanics, power electronics.
Jeong-Han Woo,
Associate Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; BE Architecture, Kyung Won University ‘96; MS Construction Management, Texas A&M ‘00; Ph.D. Architecture, Texas A&M ‘05;
areas of specialization: knowledge management in the AEC industry, BIM (Building Information Model), sustainable design, IT in the design and construction industry, construction process simulation.
Glenn T. Wrate,
Professor, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science; BS Electrical Engineering, Michigan Technological University; MS Electrical Engineering, Michigan Technological University; Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Michigan Technological University; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of California;
areas of specialization: power systems, power system transients, electric machinery.
Charlene Yauch,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering; BS, Purdue University; MS, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Madison;
areas of specialization: manufacturing systems and human factors.
Yvonne Yaz,
Professor, Mathematics; BSEE Bosphorus University; BS, Bosphorus University; MS, Bosphorus University; Ph.D., University of Arkansas-Fayetteville;
areas of specialization: control theory, stochastic control, linear matrix inequalities.
John A. Zachar,
Professor, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management; Program Director, Architectural Engineering; BS, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; MS, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Wisconsin;
areas of specialization: structural analysis, reinforced concrete design, pre-stressed concrete design, foundation design.
Raymond Zastrow,
Adjunct Assistant Professor, Rader School of Business; BS Biology, Marquette University; M.D. Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW); Assistant Clinical Professor, Department of Family and Community Medicine, (MCW). Family physician, Associate Medical Director, QuadMed;
areas of specialization: medical informatics, health care decision support.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.