Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Main Office: Student Life and Campus Center, CC-377
Phone: (414) 288-7682
Fax: (414) 288-7627
Website:
www.msoe.edu/rotc
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) is an educational program that   trains students to be officers in the United States military. ROTC   students learn leadership skills in college in order to have a   successful military or civilian career. Each branch of the armed   services has an ROTC program.
Scholarship opportunities are available through all the ROTC programs   in a variety of academic majors. A description of each of the ROTC   programs offered as MSOE follows.
Air Force ROTC
Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) is an educational   program designed to give men and women the opportunity to become Air   Force officers while completing a college degree. AFROTC gives students   the chance to develop leadership skills in college and prepares  students  for a successful career in the United States Air Force.  Interested  students do not need a scholarship offer to participate in  Air force  ROTC; scholarships are available to qualified students based  on their  academic and cadet corps performance.
Air Force ROTC offers scholarships that cover most or all of a   student’s college expenses. These scholarships are offered in one-,   two-, three- or four-year lengths and can be granted to high school   students or current college students. High school students wishing to   compete for a scholarship prior to entering college must apply following   their junior year and prior to December 1 of their senior year of high   school. The scholarship application and application procedures can be   viewed at
www.afrotc.com
.   College scholarships are offered in academic majors that meet the  needs  of the Air Force and are typically offered in the spring term.
The AFROTC office at MSOE is located on the third floor of the   Student Life and Campus Center (CC) and the AFROTC Detachment is located   at the Marquette University, 707 N. 11
th
street. MSOE   students enroll in AFROTC as cross-town students. The required AFROTC   courses are taught by the Aerospace Studies faculty from Marquette   University normally at the Marquette campus; however classes may be held   at MSOE if student numbers/cadre availability can support. All AFROTC   students must participate in two physical training sessions per week   which are offered at both MSOE and Marquette University and LLAB which   is only held at Marquette University.
Air Force ROTC units are located on 144 campuses nationwide and have   crosstown agreements with more than 1000 additional institutions. For   more information, students are encouraged to visit the website
www.afrotc.com
, the Marquette campus office or call (414) 288-7682.
Army ROTC
Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (AROTC) is a four-year program   offered at hundreds of colleges and universities nationwide. This   program trains college students to be officers in the active Army, Army   Reserve or Army National Guard. AROTC students will learn the  leadership  and management skills essential to becoming an Army officer  or having a  successful civilian career. The Army ROTC mission is to  commission the  future officer leadership of the U.S. Army.
Hundreds of AROTC scholarships are available to students each year.   These scholarships are awarded on merit, not financial need. Merit   includes academic achievement and extracurricular activities, such as   sports, student government or work. AROTC scholarships are awarded to   students studying science, engineering, nursing, business and a variety   of other academic majors. Any student may enroll in AROTC, regardless  of  whether he or she has been awarded a scholarship.
Army ROTC for Milwaukee colleges and universities is based at   Marquette University. Basic AROTC classes are offered on the MSOE campus   depending on the number of cadets enrolled from MSOE. Advanced classes   are taught on the Marquette campus. All AROTC classes are taught by  the  Military Science faculty from Marquette University.
Navy ROTC
The Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Program provides   qualified commissioned officers to the United States Navy and Marine   Corps. The mission is to develop midshipmen morally, physically, and   intellectually for careers in the United States Naval Service. Graduates   who complete all requirements will receive commissions and serve on   active duty in the Navy or Marine Corps, with a minimum three-year   commitment for non-scholarship students and four-year commitment for   scholarship students.
All NROTC students fall into one of two broad categories: scholarship   or nonscholarship (college program). Some students will enter MSOE  with  a four-year scholarship earned on a competitive basis while still  in  high school. Scholarships are for full tuition, fees, a textbook   stipend, laboratory expenses and include a subsistence stipend. In   addition, MSOE will honor a student’s MSOE Academic or Transfer   Scholarship initially awarded by MSOE’s Admissions Office. At a minimum,   MSOE will provide funds to cover a double room and a standard meal  plan  while receiving a ROTC scholarship. Students not on scholarship  are  termed college program students. They receive uniforms, naval  science  text books and a monthly stipend during their junior and senior  years.  All college program students are eligible to compete for Naval  Education  and Training Command scholarships. Students are selected on a   competitive basis after completing a minimum of one term as an NROTC   college program student.
A naval science class is required of all NROTC students each term,   with few exceptions, for which MSOE grants credit toward graduation   requirements. Students who enroll in NROTC at MSOE do so as “cross-town”   students. Required NROTC courses are taught by the Naval Science   faculty at the Marquette University campus. The remainder of their major   is completed at MSOE. Midshipmen on scholarship and junior and senior   college program students are also required to attend a paid summer   internship for a period of four to six weeks each summer. This training   introduces midshipmen to the fleet, and the life of a junior naval   officer. Summer training also provides an orientation to each of the   different warfare specialties (air, surface, submarine, and Marine   Corps).
For additional information, contact the Department of Naval Science,   Marquette University at (414) 288-7076 or visit our website at
www.marquette.edu/rotc/navy/
.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.