Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Student Accounts Office
Refund Policy
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Student Accounts Office
Main Office: Campus Center CC-437
Phone: (414) 277-7130
Fax: (414) 277-4535
Website:
www.msoe.edu/finaid
Tuition and Fees (2015-2016 Academic Year)
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition and fees at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Undergraduate Tuition
Full Time (12 - 19 credit hours)
$11,630 per quarter
Students registering for more than 19 credits will be charged $605 per credit for each credit more than 19 credits.
Part Time (1 - 11 quarter credit hours)
$605/credit hour
Technology Package (Laptop)
Accelerated Nursing students will also be charged $400 during summer quarters.
$1,200 annually
To be billed at $400/quarter
Infrastructure and Facilities Fee
$150 per quarter
Accelerated Nursing students will also be charged $150 during summer quarters.
The Infrastructure and Facilities Fee will be charged to all full-time undergraduate students and will continue to be charged to their student account every quarter until they either graduate from MSOE or are no longer a registered MSOE student.
Enrollment Deposit
$175
The enrollment deposit ensures your place in the incoming class. It should not be paid unless you have been formally accepted to MSOE by the Admission Office. This fee is
nonrefundable
and will be credited to your first-quarter tuition bill should you choose to attend MSOE.
Returned Check Fee
$30
Checks received in payment of tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Bookstore, which are returned by the bank as “Non-Sufficient Funds,” “Payment Stopped” or “Account Closed” will result in a charge of an additional $30 NSF check handling fee. If two checks are returned from the bank, the student will lose their check writing privileges in the Bookstore and their student account will be annotated to require all future payments to be in cash, cashier’s check, money order or credit card.
Residence Hall Fees (per quarter)
Main Halls
Double
$1,813
Single
$2,608
Regents Hall
Double
$2,092
Single
$2,666
MSOE Grohmann Tower Apartments
(per month, Effective through August 2016)
Studio
$1,200
One Bedrooms
(various floor plans and prices)
Two Bedrooms
(various floor plans and prices)
Meal Plan Fees (per quarter)
Extended
$1,157
Standard
$1,058
Minimum
$951
Parking Permit (per quarter)
Standard Parking
$150
Motorcycle Permit
$75
Evening/Weekend Parking
Free (must have permit)
Advanced Credit Examination Fee
$65
Audit Fee
3/4 of regular tuition
Continuation Fee (GC 899)
$100
Directed Study Fees
(Directed study fees must be paid in full at time of registration. This fee is
nonrefundable
even if directed study is not completed.)
Per Credit Undergraduate Fee
$967
Graduation Fee
$50
Due Dates
Charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes. Students who have settled in full all obligations to MSOE will be issued earned certificates, diplomas and transcripts, and will be permitted to register for the subsequent term. A student must have a zero balance to register for the next quarter.
If payment is not received by Monday of the third week, a late payment fee may accrue at a rate of 12 percent A.P.R. (one percent per month) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid paperwork, have not yet applied for financial aid or applied for financial aid late, may be charged a late payment fee on the entire outstanding balance. Students that are sponsored by a company, Department of Veterans Affairs (Chapter 31 and 33), DVR or a Foreign Embassy, who have their letter of authorization on file in the Student Accounts Office by the first day of the third week, will not be charged a late payment fee on those charges covered by a company or agency.
If a student does not make payments when due, MSOE reserves the right to require full payment of the subsequent quarter before the student may register for that quarter.
Fall 2015 due date:
Sept. 21, 2015
Winter 2015 due date:
Dec. 14, 2015
Spring 2016 due date:
March 21, 2016
Summer 2016 due date:
June 13, 2016 for Sub Term 1 and 2
August 8,2016 for Sub Term 3
Agency or Employer Sponsorship of Students
To allow flexibility for students sponsored by a company or agency, the following is possible: If the company/agency will allow MSOE to invoice them for the student’s education with no contingencies, a letter of authorization from the company or agency
must
be on file in the Student Accounts Office or must accompany the registration form. The letter of authorization must state exactly what expenses will be covered; i.e., which classes, costs, fees, books, etc. MSOE must have the letter at the time of the student’s registration each quarter.Students must also complete a Financial Responsibility form and a Payment Plan Agreement form. Both can be completed electronically by logging in to
www.my.msoe.edu
.
H.E.L.P. Payment Plan
MSOE’s in-house payment plan, H.E.L.P. (Helping Everyone to Learn and Pay), offers students monthly payment plans for amounts due. Students determine how much of their balance they wish to divide into monthly payments. Any amount not covered by H.E.L.P. will be due when billed. For further information, contact the H.E.L.P. administrator/senior collection specialist at (414) 277-2231.
Financial Aid Disbursement
Students must be enrolled full-time (12+ credits) to receive any MSOE-sponsored aid (scholarships or grants). Students who register part-time (1-11 credits), will receive an email during the first week of the term notifying them that their MSOE scholarships/grants will be removed. In addition to the loss of MSOE gift aid, undergraduate students enrolled for less than six credits are not eligible for federal or state aid and will also be notified during the first week of the term. After the first week, no aid will be updated based on enrollment status. All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Please note that Federal Work-Study is earned and paid through semi-monthly paychecks and not directly applied to your student account.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
If you have more financial aid disburse to your account than charges on your account you will have a credit balance. Credit balance refund checks will be processed after all financial aid has been disbursed to your account and will be mailed to your local address. Parent PLUS loan borrowers may authorize MSOE to issue a check for the remainder of any excess PLUS load funds to either themselves or to their student. This request must be submitted in writing to the Student Accounts Office. Please allow 10 days for credit balance refund checks to be processed.
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Bookstore, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly invoice. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the bookstore when purchasing their textbooks. You are able to charge your books to your student account during the two weeks before the term begins through the first Friday of the term (Please note that you must wait at least 24 hours after you have registered before you can charge your books this way). Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Student Invoices
All registered students receive an email notification when their bill is available to view online. For any student billing questions, please contact the Student Accounts office at (414) 277-7130 or via email at
payments@msoe.edu.
Please remember that you can always view your statement online at
my.msoe.edu
and you are responsible for all charges.MSOE will no longer send students paper invoices. Students can authorize third party access to view invoice online at
http://my.msoe.edu
.
Outside Resources Reporting Requirements
If you receive financial aid or financial support from other agencies, you are required by federal regulations to report the amount of support you receive from those agencies to the Financial Aid Office. Examples of such resources include monies received from the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), the Trade Adjustment Act (TAA), private scholarships and employer tuition reimbursement.
Dual-degree Program Charges
Dual-degree programs offer the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in a dual-degree program should complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as an undergraduate student. Students are encouraged not to graduate with a bachelor’s degree after their fourth year because they are eligible to receive undergraduate financial aid for their fifth year.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into the Master of Science in Architectural Engineering, Freshman-to-Master’s in Civil Engineering or Master of Science in Structural Engineering dual-degree programs are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid, even though they may be taking graduate courses. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the undergraduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Students enrolled less than full-time (less than 12 credits) in an approved dual-degree program will be charged $605/credit.
Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees
Attention: Students who matriculated Fall 2015 are the final group eligible for the Graduate Tuition Grant. Individuals who start at MSOE in Winter, Spring or Summer Quarters 2015-16 are not eligible.
For the 2015-2016 academic year, the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees will cover 100% of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc., for 12-19 (program specific) credit hours per term up to 51 total credits. The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees applies to the following dual-degree programs only:
Freshman-to-Master’s Degree in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science Architectural Engineering and Master of Science in Architectural Engineering
Bachelor of Science Architectural Engineering and Master of Science in Structural Engineering
Eligibility Requirements for a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
Must apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees, and
Must be fully admitted into an approved B.S.-M.S. Dual Degree program, and
Must have less than 51 credits (combined undergraduate and graduate credits) total to complete the B.S. and M.S. degrees, and
Must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative major undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.50 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have completed application for federal financial aid.
Continuation of a MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees:
The student must be a full-time Student enrolled in 12 to 19 (program specific) credit hours each quarter, and
The student must maintain a 3.25 or better cumulative undergraduate and cumulative major undergraduate GPA and a 3.50 or better cumulative graduate GPA each quarter, and
The student must be continuously enrolled as a full-time Student each quarter with the exception of the summer.
The student must complete at least 12 credits each quarter with the exception of summer quarter.
Fees:
Students will be charged standard fees for programs such as the Technology Package and Infrastructure and Facilities Fees.
Restrictions:
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees can be used to obtain one MSOE graduate degree only, and
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees will only cover up to 100% of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc.  Students with gift aid that exceeds tuition are not eligible.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. Dual Degrees can be used to pay for up to 51 credits only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S-M.S. Dual Degrees will be granted only for three consecutive quarters (not including Summer quarter).
Refund Policy
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Withdrawal from MSOE
Tuition refunds will only be granted to students who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition Refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition Refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition Refund
After the fourth week of quarter
NO REFUND
No tuition refund will be made for students who drop individual courses after 4:30 p.m. Friday of the first week of the quarter.
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
If a recipient of Title IV aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required by law to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically-related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.
The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed an academically-related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the quarter as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed the quarter
The amount of federal aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Any funds not earned will be returned in the following order:
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
Federal Subsidized Direct Loan
Federal Perkins Loan
Federal Direct PLUS Loan
Federal Pell Grant
Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant
Other Title IV Aid
If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the quarter, the student may owe a repayment to the university. A bill will be sent to the student for any balance due as a result of returning financial aid funds.
Please contact the Financial Aid Office before withdrawing to determine what aid will be returned and what you may owe MSOE.
Return of State Funds Policy
If a recipient of state aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required to calculate whether a portion of the student’s state financial aid must be returned to the state.
The amount of state aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of state aid earned is determined by the refund policy for each state grant. Please refer below for the refund policies of each individual state grant. Any aid not earned will be returned to the state.
Talent Incentive Program Grant:
Follows the Return of State Funds Policy stated previously
Wisconsin Grants:
If a student withdraws from all classes within weeks one to four and has a credit balance after the federal aid calculations are completed, then the state funds (shown above) will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If the student does not have a credit balance after federal aid calculations are completed, then there is no state refund up to a zero balance. If a student withdrawals from all classes after week five, then the state funds (shown above) will not be refunded.
Hearing/Visually Handicapped Program/Indian Student Assistance Grant/Minority Undergraduate Retention Grant/Academic Excellence Scholarship:
If a student withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter and has a credit balance after federal calculations are completed, then the state funds (shown above) will be refunded based on the Return of Title IV Funds Policy stated above. If the student does not have a credit balance after federal calculations are completed, then there is no state refund up to a zero balance.
Return of Institutional Funds Policy
If a recipient of MSOE scholarships, loans or grants officially withdraws before 4:30 p.m. Friday of week four, MSOE will calculate the amount of institutional aid the student earned and return the unearned aid back to the university.
The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Residence Hall Room and Meal Refund Policy
Room Fees
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of housing fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. All refunds are determined by official withdrawal date.
Before the start of the quarter
100% (less $75 room reservation fee)
During the first week of the quarter
90%
During the second week of the quarter
80%
During the third week of the quarter
70%
During the fourth week of the quarter
60%
During the fifth week of the quarter
50%
After the fifth week:
NO REFUND
In the event of termination of residency due to disciplinary action or who voluntarily terminate their residency will not be eligible for a room refund for that quarter.
Meal Plan Fees
In the event of an academic termination or decision by the student to terminate his or her student status, refunds of meal plan fees will be authorized according to the below refund schedule. The meal plan contract period runs from the beginning of Fall Quarter through the end of Spring Quarter.
At the end of the contract period (all meals and points must be used or they will be lost)
NO REFUND
Before the end of the contract period
Balance under $75
NO REFUND
Balance over $75
Balance minus $75 administrative fee
Note: Meals carried over each quarter will be refunded at $3.00 per meal.
Technology Package Refund Policy
Technology package refunds will be made for students who officially withdraw from ALL classes and return their laptop to the Information Technology Department (IT) according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100%
During the first week of the quarter
100%
During the second week of the quarter
80%
During the third week of the quarter
40%
During the fourth week of the quarter
20%
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
Should a laptop not be returned, all efforts will be made by IT to contact the student to arrange for return of the laptop. The Use Agreement that the student signed requires that the student return the equipment to the university within five days prior to the expiration or termination of the Use Agreement. The Use Agreement begins the first day of the first month following the date that this Use Agreement is signed or upon delivery of the equipment, whichever is earlier. The “Use Agreement Period” shall extend from the Use Agreement begin date to the user’s graduation date from MSOE. When the user becomes a non-registered student of MSOE, the Use Agreement is terminated and the laptop must be returned. MSOE will take legal action to retrieve the equipment or its value from the user. Questions regarding the technology package refund policy should be directed to IT.
Infrastructure and Facilities Fee Refund Policy
No refund will be granted for students who officially withdraw.
Parking Permit Refund Policy
MSOE Student Parking Permit refunds will be made for students who officially withdraw from ALL classes and return their Parking Permit to MSOE Public Safety according to the following schedule:
Before the start of the quarter
100%
During the first week of the quarter
100%
During the second week of the quarter
80%
During the third week of the quarter
40%
During the fourth week of the quarter
20%
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
Policies for Financial Aid Recipients
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for MSOE Financial Aid Recipients
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete a minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) as well as maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Quantitative
In accordance with federal regulations, students must successfully complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. The maximum time frame to complete a degree is within 150 percent of the published length of the degree program. To determine the published length of a degree program, please refer to the program’s track listed in the
Undergraduate Academic Catalog
.
Students will be monitored at the end of the each academic term including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Please note:
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term.
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Attempted credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D), earned F’s, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.
Completed credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D).
MSOE scholarships, grants, and loans are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (18 full-time terms).
Qualitative
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed at the end of each term of attendance including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 2.00 CGPA at the time of review will receive a financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 2.00 CGPA.
If the student reestablishes a 2.00 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 2.00 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Appeals
Students may appeal the suspension of their financial aid eligibility. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office, addressed to the director. The director, in consultation with Financial Aid Office staff members, will review the appeal and notify the student in writing regarding the appeal. Students will be able to file an appeal on the following basis: The death of a relative, injury or illness of the student, or other documented extenuating circumstances. Students must also indicate why the student failed to make satisfactory progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. Students are limited to two suspension appeal requests while attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved will be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must re-establish a 2.00 CGPA and/or complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
MSOE’s academic plan will be developed on an individual basis which may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, Raider Center for Academic Success and/or MSOE Counseling Services. Failure to meet the requirements of MSOE’s Academic Plan will result in suspension of financial aid the next term of attendance.
MSOE Academic Scholarship Policy
Full-time enrollment must be maintained in order to remain eligible to receive MSOE gift aid including the MSOE Academic Scholarship. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12 or more credits per quarter and is determined by your enrollment status as of 4:30 p.m. on Friday of week one of each quarter.
The MSOE Academic Scholarship may be extended to a sixth full-time year (up to 18 full-time quarters).
To maintain the MSOE Academic Scholarship, students must meet MSOE’s Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy.  Students can view this policy online at
www.msoe.edu/financial-aid/rights
.
Please note that there is a separate MSOE Presidential Scholarship policy.  Recipients of MSOE Presidential Scholarship can contact the Financial Aid Office for a copy of this policy.
Part-time students who have never received an MSOE Academic Scholarship, but are enrolled full time or considering full-time enrollment and have achieved a CGPA of 2.5-3.0 will receive a scholarship in the amount of $6,000 for a full academic year. Students who have achieved a CGPA of 3.01-4.0 will receive a scholarship of $8,000 for a full academic year.
Financial Aid Eligible Coursework
Federal financial aid regulations state that to qualify for federal financial aid, students must enroll in course work that leads to a degree in their program of study. Any credits enrolled that are not part of your program of study (i.e. curriculum track) are not eligible for federal or state financial aid.
Students that are enrolled in 12 or more credits (full time status) per quarter regardless of their program of study will be eligible for MSOE gift aid.  MSOE gift aid includes, but is not limited to, MSOE scholarships and grants.
There are a limited number of exceptions where coursework outside of a student’s program track could be considered for federal and/or state financial aid. They include:
Coursework approved by an Academic Advisor which is a substitute for an existing course in the student’s program track.
Remedial Coursework
Coursework leading to a minor (student must declare minor with the Registrar’s Office)
Financial aid will be awarded according to the student’s enrollment level at the end of week one of each quarter.
Repeated Course Work
The student’s enrollment level is determined by what the student is registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term. Repeated courses will be included in the determination of your enrollment status for financial aid purposes with the exception of successfully completed courses (grades A-D) that have been repeated more than once.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.