Admissions - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
Student Financial Services
Academic Regulations and Policies
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
The Raider Core
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Departments and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Admissions
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Undergraduate Admission
General Undergraduate Admission Guidelines
Transfer Students
Nonimmigrant International Undergraduate Admission
English for Academic Purposes Program
Main Office: Campus Center, CC-109
Phone:
Local: (414) 277-6763
Toll Free: (800) 332-6763
Fax: (414) 277-7475
Email:
explore@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu
Undergraduate Admission
The university maintains its long-standing tradition as an Equal Opportunity Educator. As such, MSOE does not discriminate in its educational opportunities on the basis of an individual’s race, ethnicity, color, creed, religion, sex, (including pregnancy and pregnancy-related disabilities), age, national origin, physical or mental disability, military and veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic characteristics, marital status, or other factors prohibited by federal or state law.
Applicants who are accepted for admission are considered to have intellectual ability and personal qualifications necessary to pursue successfully a course of study at MSOE on a full- or part-time basis. Under certain circumstances, students will have to augment their secondary education in preparation for college-level study. Students wishing to enroll in full-time degree programs, or those interested in part-time study in degree programs, courses and all noncredit classes, may obtain appropriate admission material by contacting the Admissions Department.
General Undergraduate Admission Guidelines
MSOE reviews all prior academic experience and seeks to determine the potential for success within the applicant’s chosen field of study. In order to ensure preparation for the applicant’s chosen field of study, the following standard guidelines for admission are offered.
Students who wish to apply to MSOE must submit:
A completed admission application
An official high school transcript or GED test score
Optional: Results of the ACT or SAT examinations. Students are not required to submit test results.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any time.
Prior to matriculation, students must submit their final high school transcript or GED score as proof of graduation.
A student may be granted:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into their desired program of study.
Denied admittance: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
Non-degree status: The student has not been accepted into a program of study but may complete up to 30 credits in their area(s) of interest.
Students must have a completed admissions application.
Students are ineligible for financial aid while on non-degree status.
Transfer Students
Students who wish to transfer to MSOE must submit:
An admission application
An official transcript(s) of all previously completed college course work
High school transcripts, (if less than one year or 24 semester credits of college work)
Transfer students who apply for financial aid are required to submit financial aid transcripts from the Financial Aid Office of any previously attended colleges.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any time.
Transfer students may be granted:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into their desired program of study.
Denied admission: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
Non-matriculated status: The student has not been accepted into a program of study but may take three courses for one semester. At the end of the semester the student must have earned a 2.50 grade point average to be considered for full acceptance or must have completed or submitted any outstanding documents or requirements so an admission decision may be finalized.
Students must have a completed admissions application.
Students are ineligible for financial aid while on non-matriculated status.
Completed course work may or may not apply towards degree requirements for graduation.
Non-degree status: The student has not been accepted into a program of study but may complete up to 30 credits in their area(s) of interest.
Students must have a completed admissions application.
Students are ineligible for financial aid while on non-degree status.
Transfer of Grades and Courses
MSOE is committed to welcoming transfer students into the community and supporting them through the application and transfer credit evaluation processes. Please see the
Transfer Credit policy.
Nonimmigrant International Undergraduate Admission
To be considered for admission, students must:
Complete an admission application.
Demonstrate their English proficiency by providing official TOEFL or IELTS test results or by providing proof of graduation from a qualifying ESL/EAP program. The minimum test score requirements are:
TOEFL Internet-Based - 82 with a minimum band score of 19
TOEFL Paper - 553
TOEFL Computerized - 217
IELTS - 6.5 with a minimum band score of 6.0
Submit original transcripts of all secondary and post-secondary school academic work, including detailed grades and a certified English language translation if transcripts are not issued in English.
Official ACT/SAT scores are highly recommended.
Include a copy of a valid passport.
Provide an official completed certification of financial responsibility showing funds available for the first year of study.
Students transferring from a school in the United States must submit an International Student Transfer Form, completed by their international student advisor.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any time.
After all these documents have been received, an applicant’s entire file will be reviewed for admission. A student may receive:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into their desired program of study. Some ESL requirements may need to be satisfied based on the student’s TOEFL/IELTS score.
Conditional admission: A student is accepted to their desired program of study, but still needs to either complete an approved intensive ESL program or submit a qualifying TOEFL or IELTS score. Contact the Admission Office for a list of approved ESL programs.
Denied admission: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
English for Academic Purposes (EAP) Program
The EAP Program works with all MSOE academic programs, faculty, and staff to ensure the success of all international students on campus.
The EAP program prepares international students whose native language is not English for academic success in the Milwaukee School of Engineering. Course work provides a framework to accelerate and support student’s mastery of academic content and language skills in all four language areas and is aligned to the European Curriculum Framework. Successful completion of the EAP program will allow students to enter MSOE as a full-time undergraduate, graduate, or dual admission student.
International students may be accepted into a degree program at MSOE but may have a language proficiency that is slightly below the minimum required level. In this case, students are enrolled in two MSOE undergraduate credit classes and two to three EAP classes.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.