Global Opportunities - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions
Student Financial Services
Academic Regulations and Policies
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Course Descriptions
The Raider Core
MSOE Honors Program
Global Opportunities
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
Administration, Regents, and Advisory Committees
Departments and Faculty
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Opportunities
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
The Office of Multicultural Affairs
Office: CC-359
Email:
multiculturalaffairs@msoe.edu
https://www.msoe.edu/campus-experience/student-life/multicultural-affairs/
Overview
MSOE’s Global Opportunities provide MSOE students the chance to experience new cultures, gain new perspectives, and develop skills that can be applied in a global context. This is an excellent way for students to embody the MSOE mindset, which emphasizes hands-on, experiential learning and encourages students to be innovative, collaborative, and globally aware. These experiences will help to prepare future MSOE graduates for success in their future careers in a rapidly changing and interconnected world.
Study Abroad
By studying abroad, MSOE students can immerse themselves in a new environment and learn from a different educational system. They can develop cross-cultural communication skills, adaptability, and problem-solving abilities, which are essential in today’s globalized world. Additionally, students can gain insight into global engineering practices, experience different approaches to technology and innovation, and build relationships with professionals and peers from around the world. Working with peers and educators from diverse backgrounds, they can also learn how to navigate cultural differences and develop effective communication and leadership skills in a multicultural setting.
Key features of studying abroad:
Instruction is in English.
Participation does not delay progress toward graduation since all course work taken is integrated into the curricula of each MSOE program.
Credits of courses where students earn a C or better will transfer back to MSOE.
Students continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. Financial aid and student loans apply.
Certain academic requirements are applicable - see program director for details.
Support for studying abroad
Students work with program directors (faculty) from their academic department to select courses that will transfer back to MSOE.
Students work with the Office of Multicultural Affairs to work through logistics of studying abroad at our partner institutions.
Study Abroad Options
Germany
♦
Czech Republic
♦
France
♦
Italy
♦
New Zealand
♦
Malaysia
♦
Short-term Opportunities
Germany
Students may spend their junior year at the
Technische Hochschule Lübeck
(THL), in Lübeck, Germany. Founded in 1808, the university is similar to MSOE in that it is an applications-oriented institution. Situated near the Baltic Sea, the beautiful city of Lübeck is a center of commerce, industry, and higher education, and offers a variety of recreational opportunities to young people. Much of its Middle Ages appearance is still intact in the older portion of town, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The MSOE program consists of two semesters at THL, with extensive breaks to travel throughout Europe.
Year-Long Student Exchange Programs
Students in the Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering programs or students in the Rader School of Business have the opportunity to study in Germany during their junior year. Students study at Lübeck from September through June. Upon graduation, participating students who meet all requirements will receive a degree from MSOE and the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, as well.
Approved MSOE Majors
Electrical Engineering, B.S.
Mechanical Engineering, B.S.
Operations and Systems Management, B.S.
Finance, B.S.
Management, B.S.
Marketing, B.S.
Single Semester Student Exchange Programs
In addition to the full academic year experience, the Biomedical Engineering and Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management programs offer single semester study abroad opportunities with the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences. MSOE students study in Lübeck from February through June, taking courses that transfer for required courses in their respective MSOE curriculum.
Approved MSOE Majors
Biomedical Engineering, B.S.
Architectural Engineering, B.S.
Civil Engineering, B.S.
Construction Management, B.S.
Highlights of the Program
Upon graduation, students participating in the year-long program have the opportunity to receive two degrees, one from MSOE and another from THL.
Like MSOE programs, the Lübeck counterparts are tight-knit diverse communities of faculty and students, which offer visiting students an opportunity to experience the culture of Germany and form lifelong relationships.
Czech Republic
Students may study for a semester at one of the oldest and most respected technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. Founded in 1707, CTU consists of six schools and seven institutes with some 16,000 students enrolled in engineering courses. Prague’s famed diversity of architectural styles, the distinctive bridges arching the Vltava River and narrow, winding cobbled streets make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities. The city is the social and cultural center of Central Europe with an entrepreneurial energy coursing through its streets.
Approved MSOE Majors
Computer Engineering, B.S.
Computer Science, B.S.
Mechanical Engineering, B.S.
Software Engineering, B.S.
Highlights of the Program
With Prague’s central location in Europe, travel is easy and affordable; students travel to an average of 7 counties while studying at CTU.
CTU is a large international institution at which students from all over the world study; their international student club is robust, and students will have ample opportunity to be exposed to rich global diversity.
France
Students who participate in this study-abroad program will spend the month of June or July in Lille, France studying at
Lille Catholic University
. Lille is a major city of northern France famed for being an important cultural and commercial hub, and for its historical center. Students can experience European culture while satisfying humanities and/or engineering electives.
Approved MSOE Majors
All majors
Highlights of the Program
With a rough cost of $5000, students can earn credits and live for a month in France for around the same they would pay to do the same in Milwaukee!
Note that student loans and financial aid do not apply to summer programs.
Italy
Students can study abroad at
Florence University of the Arts
(FUA) in Florence, Italy. Florence, or Firenze as it is known in Italian, is a beautiful city located in the heart of Tuscany, Italy. It is renowned for its rich cultural heritage, breathtaking art, and Renaissance architecture, making it an ideal destination for anyone interested in studying abroad. At FUA, students have a wide variety of elective courses to choose from, including sports management/marketing, intercultural communication, international banking, sustainability and much more. Students can choose to study in either the Fall or Spring semester, or for the entire year!
Approved MSOE Majors
All Business majors
Construction Management, B.S.
User Experience, B.S.
Highlights of the Program
Students can begin their program with a cultural tour of Italy, starting in Rome and ending in Florence before the start of classes.
Students will have the opportunity to take international courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
New Zealand
Study at the other end of the world and experience New Zealand’s breath-taking natural beauty, vibrant culture, and chat with the friendly locals (Kiwis).
Victoria University of Wellington
(VUW), located in the country’s capital, has a vibrant and diverse student population from around the world. VUW is ranked #1 for research quality in New Zealand, with many faculty members engaged in cutting-edge research across a variety of fields. This provides students with unique opportunities to engage in research and contribute to the creation of new knowledge. Faculty members are passionate about their work and engage students with multiple learning styles across comprehensive subjects in multiple academic programs.
Approved MSOE Majors
Actuarial Science, B.S.
All Business majors
Biomedical Engineering, B.S.
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, B.S.
Computer Engineering, B.S.
Computer Science, B.S.
Electrical Engineering, B.S.
Software Engineering, B.S.
User Experience, B.S.
Highlights of the Program
VUW places a strong emphasis on community engagement and social responsibility. The university offers numerous opportunities for students to get involved in community service and volunteer work, and there are a variety of clubs and societies to join, including cultural, social, and athletic groups.
When you’re not in class, indulge in Wellington’s cafés, explore the stunning waterfront, or see where Lord of the Rings was filmed!
Malaysia
Monash University
is a new partner of MSOE, allowing students to pursue education at one of the top 50 universities in the world. The Monash University Malaysia campus was established in 1998 and is situated in Bandar Sunway, a mere 15-minute drive from the bustling capital city of Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. Monash University Malaysia offers various undergraduate degrees through its faculties of Arts and Social Sciences, Business, Engineering, and Information Technology.
From the Malay culture to the Chinese and Indian cultures, Malaysia has a rich cultural heritage that is worth exploring. The culture of Malaysia is diverse and a mélange of influences from both the east and the west. With an eclectic population spanning various ethnic groups, Malaysia is a glorious melting pot of traditions and practices spanning generations. Students can easily travel to countries in the Asia-Pacific region (e.g., Singapore, Thailand, Hong Kong, Maldives, Australia), which all just a nonstop flight away from Kuala Lumpur International Airport under six hours!
Approved MSOE Majors
All majors except Nursing
Highlights of the Program
Malaysia is ranked in top three Asian countries most-proficient in English and is a great environment to learn other popular languages like Malay, Mandarin Chinese, Cantonese, and Tamil.
The living cost of studying in Malaysia is relatively low compared to other countries. Accommodation and living expenses are affordable, making it an attractive destination for international students.
Short-term Opportunities
Each year, MSOE offers various courses that include a travel component. There are always new and exciting trips that are between one and two weeks during break periods. All trips have a faculty advisor to facilitate connections between the classroom and the global experience. Students have traveled to Munich, Germany; St. Petersburg, Russia; and Havana, Cuba. New faculty-led trips continue to be developed each year!
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.