Academic Regulations and Policies - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Services and Resources for Graduate Students
Graduate Admission Requirements
Academic Regulations and Policies
Academic Departments, Degree Programs and Certificates
Degree Programs and Certificates
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Academic Regulations and Policies
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Registration
Financial Aid Office
Student Accounts Office
Payment Policies
Refund Policies
Grading
Academic Progress Requirements
Directed Study Enrollment
Policy on Student Integrity
Academic Dishonesty Procedure And Appeals Process
Academic Advising
Prerequisite Policy
Student Attendance Policy
Adding/dropping Courses and Changing Sections
Withdrawal from All Classes
Transfer of Graduate Credit
Procedure for Changing Graduate Program
Awarding of Two Master’s Degrees
Auditing a Class
Undergraduate/Graduate Courses
Full-Time Status
Graduation Requirements
Graduation Procedures
Registration
The registration process is designed to meet the needs of busy professionals. All new students will be contacted by an advisor or program director to establish a time to meet face-to-face, by phone, or through email to review curriculum and select courses. Please note that all programs require the student to confer with the program director to choose an appropriate program of study prior to registering. New students may have their MSOE ID cards issued by uploading a photo to:
www.msoe.edu/life_at_msoe/current_student_resources/student_resources/idcard/managemyid.shtml
. Parking information can be accessed at:
www.msoe.edu/about_msoe/campus_safety/student_parking.shtml
.
Current students may register in person, by mail, by fax, or on the Web. Registration forms are available within myMSOE at
https://my.msoe.edu/ics
about a month before the start of each quarter. Tuition payment is required as outlined in the “
Graduate Tuition
” section of this catalog.
MSOE reserves the right to revise admission rules, rules regarding the granting of degrees, tuition and fees, and any other regulations affecting its students at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions. MSOE also reserves the right to exclude, at any time, any student whose conduct or academic standing is regarded as undesirable.
Financial Aid Office
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office is available to assist graduate students in obtaining financial aid and exploring alternative loan products. We encourage all students to visit our website at
www.msoe.edu/finaid
for more detailed information. If you have any questions or want further information, feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at (800) 778-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
.
How to Apply for Aid
Apply for a PIN (Personal Identification Number) from the U.S. Department of Education (ED). This process can be completed online at
www.pin.ed.gov
. The PIN is used as your electronic signature when applying for aid.
Once you have your PIN, you can apply for aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). You may do so online at
www.fafsa.gov
. If you wish to apply via a paper application, please contact the Department of Education at (800) 4-FED-AID.
Eligibility
Admitted graduate students who are not in default or do not owe a repayment on any federal aid program are eligible for need-based and non need-based federal student loans. A student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per quarter to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans.
Please note the non-credit workshops through Continuing Studies and Outreach are not eligible for financial aid. Further note that nondegree and nonmatriculated students are not eligible for financial aid.
Student Accounts Office
Graduate Tuition 2012-2013
Per Credit
$670
Application Fee
$30
Graduation Fee
$75
Directed Study (per credit)
$1,050
Audit Fee
75% of normal tuition for the course
MSOE reserves the right to revise tuition, fees and policies at any time. MSOE will exercise the normal means of communication announcing revisions.
Please contact the Student Accounts Office for the most recent tuition and fee rates or visit our website at
www.msoe.edu/campus/tuitfees.shtml
.
Dual-Degree Program Charges
Dual-degree programs offer the ability to complete both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in five years. Students in a dual-degree program should complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as an undergraduate student. Students are encouraged not to graduate with a bachelor’s degree after their fourth year because they are eligible to receive undergraduate financial aid for their fifth year.
Full-time students (12 credits or more) accepted into the Freshman-to-Master’s in Civil Engineering or Master of Science in Structural Engineering dual-degree programs are charged full-time undergraduate tuition rates and will receive undergraduate financial aid, even though they may be taking graduate courses. If a student enrolls in more than 19 credits, they will be charged the graduate per-credit rate for any credits above 19.
Students enrolled less than full-time (less than 12 credits) in an approved dual-degree program will be charged the standard per-credit charge based on the type and number of credits for which they enroll.
Graduate Tuition Grant
MSOE students now have an extra incentive to get their master’s degree here: it’s tuition free! With the new graduate tuition grant, you can get a master’s degree and put yourself ahead of the competition at no cost.
To be eligible for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant, you must meet the below requirements:
Have an undergraduate degree from MSOE
Have a cumulative undergraduate MSOE GPA of 3.25 or better
Have a cumulative major undergraduate MSOE GPA of 3.25 or better
Be admitted into an approved MSOE graduate program
Start the graduate program within one calendar year of graduation from MSOE with an MSOE bachelor’s degree, and
Apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant before starting your graduate studies
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant will cover 100 percent of tuition for 9-15 graduate credit hours per term (up to 51 credits total) for the following programs:
Master of Science in Civil Engineering (graduate degree classes only)
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
Master of Science in Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering Management
Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management
Master of Science in New Product Management
Master of Science in Structural Engineering (graduate degree classes only)
Continuation of the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Tuition Grant include that the student must:
Be a full-time graduate student enrolled in 9 to 15 (program specific) graduate credit hours each quarter, and
Maintain a 3.50 or better cumulative GPA each quarter, and
Be continuously enrolled as a full-time graduate student each quarter, with the exception of the summer term(s).
Further conditions may apply. Visit
www.msoe.edu/gtg
for more information.
Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees will cover 100 percent of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc., for 12-18 (program specific) credit hours per term up to 51 total credits. The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees applies to the following dual-degree programs only:
Freshman-to-Master’s Degree in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering and Master of Science in Structural Engineering
Bachelor of Science (engineering) and Master of Science in Environmental Engineering
Eligibility Requirements for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees:
Must apply for the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees, and
Must be fully admitted into an approved B.S.-M.S. dual degree program, and
Must have less than 51 credits (combined undergraduate and graduate credits) total to complete the B.S. and M.S. degrees, and
Must have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative major undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.50 or better at the time of application for the tuition grant, and
Must have completed and submitted application for federal financial aid (FAFSA).
Continuation of the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees depends on the satisfactory performance of the student’s academic progress as evaluated at the end of each quarter.
Requirements to keep the MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees:
The student must be a full-time student enrolled in 12 to 18 (program specific) credit hours each quarter, and
The student must maintain a 3.25 or better cumulative undergraduate and cumulative major undergraduate GPA and a 3.50 or better cumulative graduate GPA each quarter, and
The student must be continuously enrolled as a full-time student each quarter with the exception of the summer.
Fees:
Charge per credit for Capstone courses (program specific): $100
Students will be charged standard fees for programs such as the Technology Package.
Restrictions:
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees may be used to obtain one MSOE graduate degree only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees will only cover up to 100% of tuition not covered by grants, scholarships, etc. Students with gift aid that exceeds tuition are not eligible.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S.-M.S. dual degrees may be used to pay for up to 51 credits only.
The MSOE Graduate Tuition Grant for B.S-M.S. dual degrees will be granted only for three consecutive quarters (not including Summer Quarter).
Further conditions may apply. Visit
www.msoe.edu/gtg
for more information.
For more information:
If you are not yet a student at MSOE, contact an admission counselor directly at (800) 332-6763.
If you are a current student in a dual degree program, contact your program director.
If you are a current student or an MSOE alumnus, contact Continuing Studies and Outreach at (800) 321-6763.
Payment Policies
Due Dates
Charges are due and payable by Monday of the third week of classes. Students who have settled in full all obligations to MSOE will be issued earned certificates, diplomas and transcripts, and will be permitted to register for the subsequent term. A student must have a zero balance to register for the next quarter.
If payment is not received by Monday of the third week, a late payment fee may accrue at a rate of 12 percent A.P.R. (1 percent per month) until paid. Students whose financial aid has not transferred to their student account as of Monday of the third week because they have not completed their financial aid, have not yet applied for financial aid, or have applied for financial aid late may be charged a late payment fee on the entire outstanding balance. Students who are sponsored by a company, Chapters 31 and 33 from the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), or a Foreign Embassy who have their letter of authorization on file in the Student Accounts Office by Monday of the third week will not be charged a late payment fee on those charges covered by a company or agency.
If a student does not make payments when due, MSOE reserves the right to require full payment of the subsequent quarter before the student can register for that quarter.
Agency or Employer Sponsorship of Students
To allow flexibility for students sponsored by a company or agency, the following is possible: If the company/agency will allow MSOE to invoice them for the student’s education with no contingencies, a letter of authorization from the company or agency must be on file in the Student Accounts Office or must accompany the registration form. The letter of authorization must state exactly what expenses will be covered (i.e., which classes, costs, fees, books, etc.). MSOE must have the letter at the time of the student’s registration.
Financial Aid Disbursement
All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Credit Balance Refund Checks
If you have more financial aid disbursed to your account than charges on your account, you will have a credit balance. Credit balance refund checks will be processed after all financial aid has been disbursed to your account and will be mailed to your local address. Please allow 10 days after a credit balance is created for credit balance refund checks to be processed.
Book Purchase Policy
Students are able to charge their book purchases, made at the MSOE Bookstore, to their MSOE student account and will be billed for those charges on their next monthly invoice. In order to do this, students must present their MSOE student ID to the bookstore when purchasing their text books. You are able to charge your books to your student account during the two weeks before the term begins through the first Friday of the term. (Please note that you must wait at least 24 hours after you have registered before you can charge your books this way.) Students can only charge books and supplies to their account; students cannot charge MSOE apparel or souvenirs to their account.
Student Invoices
All registered students are mailed a paper invoice before the term begins. If you register after the first batch of invoices has been mailed, you will receive a paper invoice in the mail during week three of the term. These invoices are mailed to the legal/home/permanent address you have on record with the Registrar’s Office. If you wish to have it mailed to a different address, you must contact us at
payments@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7130.
Please remember that you can always view your statement online at
my.msoe.edu
and you are responsible for all charges regardless of whether or not you receive a paper invoice in the mail. Charges are not updated online until week two of the term.
Outside Resources Reporting Requirements
If you receive financial aid or receive financial support from other agencies, you are required by federal regulations to report the amount of support you receive from those agencies to the Financial Aid Office. Examples of such resources include monies received from the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR), the Trade Adjustment Act (TAA), private scholarships and employer tuition reimbursement.
Late Registration
A $45 late registration fee is due and payable at the time of late registration. Late registration is defined as registering during week one of the term.
Noncredit Courses
Payment in full is required with registration.
Returned Check Fee
Checks received in payment of tuition and fees or cashed at the MSOE Bookstore, which are returned by the bank “Non Sufficient Funds”, “Payment Stopped”, or “Account Closed” will result in a charge of an additional $30.00 NSF check handling fee. If two (2) checks are returned from the bank, the student will lose their check writing privileges in the bookstore and their student account will be annotated to require all future payments to be in cash, cashier’s check, money order or credit card.
Refund Policies
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Tuition refunds will be authorized only for withdrawals approved by the Registrar’s Office.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Financial Aid Recipients
A financial aid recipient is defined as any student who has been awarded financial aid (federal, state, or institutional) by the Financial Aid Office.
No tuition refund will be made for financial aid recipients who drop individual courses after 4:00 p.m. on Friday of the first week of the quarter.
Tuition refunds will only be granted to financial aid recipients who officially withdraw from
ALL
courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition Refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition Refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition Refund
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
Tuition Variance Committee
The purpose of the Tuition Variance Committee is to allow appeals for those students having extenuating circumstances they believe warrant a tuition or refund exception to the existing policy.
Students submit appeal in writing to the Student Accounts Office, addressed to the Tuition Variance Committee. The committee will then discuss the appeal to determine whether any tuition adjustment should be considered. The appeal should include as much detail as possible and also include any documentation that would help verify the facts in the appeal. It should also include a proposed fair financial resolution. For details please refer to the Tuition and Fees section on the Financing your Education Web page on MSOE’s website. All appeal letters must be submitted in writing and mailed to:
Student Accounts Department
Attn: Tuition Variance Committee
MSOE
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
Typical reasons for which exemptions to policies may be considered, but not guaranteed, include:
Student health issues
Death of an immediate family member
Extended periods of physical or mental illness of a student’s immediate family member who is dependent upon the student for support and which is documented by a physician
(If you prefer, medical documentation can be submitted to the director of counseling services.)
Error in academic advising resulting in inappropriate course enrollment-substantiated by advisor and department chairperson
Military obligations-if you are in the military and are called up to active duty you should contact the registrar directly
Typical reasons for which exemptions to policies are
not
considered include:
Changes in employment schedule or workload
Personal errors in judgment involving availability of finances, academic ability or time management
Dissatisfaction with the course content or delivery of instruction (these concerns should be directed toward the appropriate department chairperson)
Issues related to company tuition reimbursement programs (these matters should be handled with the student’s individual company)
Return of Title IV Funds Policy
If a recipient of Title IV aid officially withdraws from all classes before completing 60 percent of the quarter, MSOE is required by law to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government. The official withdrawal date is determined as the date that the “Withdrawal from All Classes” form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office.
If a recipient of Title IV aid unofficially withdraws from all classes without notifying MSOE, the Financial Aid Office is required to determine the student’s last date of academically-related activity to calculate whether a portion of the student’s federal financial aid must be returned to the federal government.
The Financial Aid Office will contact the student’s professor(s) to determine the last date a student completed an academically-related activity. If the professor(s) is unable to provide a date, the Financial Aid Office will be required to use the midpoint of the quarter as the withdrawal date. The student will have 14 days after notification of any adjustment in aid to provide documentation that he or she completed the quarter.
The amount of federal aid the student keeps is in direct proportion to the length of time the student remained enrolled during the quarter. The amount of aid earned is determined by dividing the number of days completed in the quarter by the total number of days in the quarter.
Any funds not earned will be returned in the following order:
Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loan
Federal Perkins Loan
Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan
If a student withdraws before completing 60 percent of the quarter, the student may owe a repayment to the university. A bill will be sent to the student for any balance due as a result of returning financial aid funds.
Please contact the Financial Aid Office before withdrawing to determine what aid will be returned and what you may owe MSOE.
Tuition Refund Schedule for Students NOT Receiving Financial Aid
This refund schedule is for 11-week classes. For shorter classes, please contact the Student Accounts Office.
Tuition refunds will be made for students not receiving financial aid officially withdraw from one or more courses according to the following schedule:
Prior to the start of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the first week of the quarter
100% Tuition Refund
During the second week of the quarter
80% Tuition Refund
During the third week of the quarter
40% Tuition Refund
During the fourth week of the quarter
20% Tuition Refund
After the fourth week of the quarter
NO REFUND
Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy
In accordance with federal regulations, financial aid recipients are required to complete a minimum percentage of credits attempted, (defined as the Quantitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) as well as maintain a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) (known as the Qualitative Component of Satisfactory Academic Progress) that would lead to the attainment of a degree.
Quantitative
In accordance with federal regulations, students must successfully complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. The maximum timeframe to complete a degree is within 150 percent of the published length of the degree program. To determine the published length of a degree program, please refer to the
Degree Programs and Certificates
section in this
Academic Catalog
.
Students will be monitored at the end of the each academic term including summer.
Students not meeting the minimum percentage after a given academic term will be placed on financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid but the student must meet the required minimum percentage.
If the student completes enough credits to meet the minimum percentage, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not complete enough credits to meet the minimum percentage during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Please note:
Your enrollment level is determined by what you are registered for as of 4:30 p.m. Friday of week one each term.
Transfer credits accepted from other schools will be counted toward completion of the degree program as both hours attempted and hours completed.
Attempted credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D), earned Fs, incompletes, withdrawals and courses that were grade replaced.
Completed credits include successfully completed credits (grades A-D).
MSOE scholarships, grants and loans are awarded for a maximum of six full-time years (18 full-time terms).
Qualitative
In accordance with federal regulations, a student’s CGPA must be reviewed at the end of each term of attendance including summer.
Students who have not maintained a 2.00 CGPA at the time of review will receive a financial aid warning for their next term of attendance.
While on financial aid warning, the student is still eligible for financial aid, but the student must reestablish a 2.00 CGPA.
If the student reestablishes a 2.00 CGPA or higher, the financial aid warning will be lifted.
If the student does not reestablish the 2.00 CGPA during the financial aid warning term, the student will be placed on financial aid suspension and will not qualify for financial aid for their next term of attendance.
Appeals
Students may appeal the suspension of their financial aid eligibility. Appeals should be submitted in writing to the Financial Aid Office, addressed to the director. The director, in consultation with Financial Aid Office staff members, will review the appeal and notify the student in writing regarding the appeal. Students may file an appeal on the following basis: The death of a relative, injury or illness of the student, or other documented extenuating circumstances. Students must also indicate why the student failed to make satisfactory progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. Students are limited to two suspension appeal requests while attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Probation
Students whose appeals have been approved will be placed on financial aid probation for their next term of attendance. While on financial aid probation, the student must reestablish a 2.00 CGPA and/or complete at least 67 percent of cumulative credits attempted. If it is determined prior to the probation term that the student will not meet the requirements of the financial aid probation during the probation term, an academic plan will be developed for the student.
Academic Plan
MSOE’s Academic Plan will be developed on individual basis which may include academic performance requirements, meetings with an academic advisor, Learning Resource Center and/or MSOE Counseling Service. Failure to meet the requirements of MSOE’s Academic Plan will result in suspension of financial aid the next term of attendance.
Grading
Graduate students are expected to earn at least a “B” grade in all course work attempted. Graduate students are not allowed to repeat a class for which a letter grade has been earned unless given permission by the program director. If a graduate course is repeated, then both grades will count toward the student’s cumulative GPA. With the exception of Medical Informatics, MSOE uses the following grading system for graduate-level courses:
Letter Grade
Numerical Equivalent
Interpretation
A
4.00
Excellent
AB
3.50
Above Expectations
B
3.00
Meets Expectations
BC
2.50
Below Expectations
C
2.00
Minimally Acceptable for Graduate Credit
F
0
Failure
W
0
Withdrawal
P
0
Pass
NR
0
No Grade Reported
PIP
0
Project in Progress
S
0
Satisfactory
U
0
Unsatisfactory
For those courses in the Master of Science in Medical Informatics program (i.e., courses with the MI-prefix), MSOE uses the following grading system:
Letter Grade
Numerical Equivalent
Interpretation
A
4.00
Excellent
A-
3.70
Significantly Above Expectations
B+
3.30
Somewhat Above Expectations
B
3.00
Meets Expectations
B-
2.70
Somewhat Below Expectations
C+
2.30
Below Expectations
C
2.00
Significantly Below Expectations
C-
1.70
Minimally Acceptable for Graduate Credit
F
0
Failure
W
0
Withdrawal
NR
0
No Grade Reported
PIP
0
Project in Progress
Letter grades of A-F that are received for graduate courses completed at MSOE are included in the calculation of the average. To receive the degree, the student must attain a 3.00 cumulative GPA.
A letter grade followed by an asterisk is a temporary grade indicating incomplete work. The letter preceding the asterisk indicates the grade the student will receive if the work is not completed. An incomplete grade is given at the discretion of the instructor. It is the responsibility of the student to make arrangements within the first two weeks of the following quarter (not including summer) to complete the course. The student must submit the required work to complete the course within the time deadline set by the instructor, but this may not be later than the end of this same quarter. If the student has not completed all work for the course after this period of time, the asterisk will be dropped and the temporary letter grade will become the permanent grade.
Students who are unable to complete course work due to business travel, health or other factors are urged to either arrange with the instructor for an incomplete grade or officially drop the course. Otherwise, an “F” grade may be assigned for the course.
A student who enrolls in a section of a capstone project but does not complete the requirement before the end of the quarter shall receive a grade of Project in Progress, or PIP. Once the student completes the requirements, the faculty member who assigned the PIP (typically the program director with input from the student’s project advisor) shall send a change-of-grade form to the registrar, who then assigns the final grade. If the PIP grade is not changed within one calendar year from being first recorded, the registrar is to change the PIP grade to a grade of “U”. The program director can prevent the conversion to the U grade if the student’s advisor verifies that the student is still making suitable progress on the project, and the student has continuously paid the graduate continuation fee.
Academic Progress Requirements
MSOE expects all students to complete their academic objectives as outlined under the “
Grade Point Requirement
” and the “
Maximum Time Period
” sections that follow. In addition, students are expected to follow the prescribed sequence of courses for the degree program selected, observing all course prerequisites and corequisites.
Grade Point Requirement
A student is expected to maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00 in any graduate program. The cumulative GPA is calculated on the basis of all graduate courses completed or attempted at MSOE with final grades to which grade points are assigned. This would exclude, for example, a project course graded on a pass/fail basis when a pass (P) grade is earned. The cumulative GPA will include courses completed at the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) for students in the MSMI program. The cumulative GPA will be recorded on grade reports and on the student’s permanent record each quarter. A student also is expected to maintain a program GPA of at least 3.00, calculated on the basis of all MSOE graduate courses applicable toward the degree being pursued (including those at MCW for students in the MSMI program).
A student whose cumulative GPA falls below 3.00 in any given quarter will be placed on academic probation. Each graduate-level program may impose restrictions on registration privileges for students on academic probation.
A student whose cumulative GPA falls below the minimum given in the table below, where “N” is the number of graduate credits over which the GPA is based, will be subject to academic termination.
N = Number of Graduate Course Credits for
Cumulative GPA
Minimum Cumulative GPA
5 or fewer
2.00
Between 6 and 20, inclusive
2.30 + (1/30)N
21 or more
3.00
Individual graduate programs may impose additional requirements (for example, a minimum program GPA) that, if not met, would also cause a student to be subject to academic termination.
Credit Hour Definition
MSOE defines an academic credit hour as a minimum of one hour spent in class each week for lecture-based courses, or as a minimum of two hours spent each week in the laboratory or clinical component of a course.
For each academic credit hour, MSOE further expects that a typical graduate student will spend more than two hours outside of class preparing for and studying for the class.
For courses featuring alternative delivery methods (e.g. blended-Internet), parity tables are maintained that document how expected class contact time is accounted for in the alternative method. Parity tables are developed by and available from the academic department or school offering the course.
Grade Appeals and Termination from a Graduate Program
A student who receives a letter grade of “F” in a graduate class may be subject to academic termination.
A student who wishes to dispute any grade, including a grade of “F” in any graduate class, must appeal first to the faculty member assigning the grade. The decision of the faculty member may be appealed to the department chairperson responsible for that course. The department chairperson will notify the graduate program director for the course and for the student that a grade appeal has been filed. The decision of the department chairperson may be appealed to the vice president of academics. The decision of the vice president of academics in the grade dispute matter is considered final.
A student who has been terminated from a graduate program due to academic difficulty may appeal the termination decision to the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee. The student must submit a written petition to the Registrar’s Office, addressed to the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee. The decision of the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee will be final.
Grade Replacement
Graduate students are not allowed to repeat a graduate-level course for which a grade has been earned unless given written permission by the program director. When granted permission, graduate students may repeat for grade replacement any graduate-level course for which a letter grade below a B was earned. The grade and credits earned from the second attempt will appear on the transcript and will be used to calculate the student’s GPA. The letter grade from the second attempt will be the final grade for the course. The registration for the first attempt will be preceded with a “#” indicating that the grade and credits from the first attempt will not be used to calculate the student’s GPA.
Maximum Time Period
A student in the MSCBM, MSCVE, MSE, MSEM, MSNP, MSST or MSXM has a maximum of seven years from his/her initial enrollment in a graduate course to complete all degree requirements. A student in the MSMI program has a maximum of five years to complete all degree requirements. A student in the MSP program is expected to complete the program’s requirements at the end of the six consecutive quarters of enrollment, including summer, of his/her initial matriculation and has a maximum of two years to complete all degree requirements. Any student failing to complete all degree requirements within the deadlines described should consult with his/her program director and request a time extension (described below).
Time Extensions
Students having a valid reason for being unable to meet deadlines established by MSOE for completion of the graduate degree programs (see above for specific time limits) may appeal in writing to the program director for an extension of time of up to one year. The decision of the program director may be appealed to the Graduate Programs Council. An appeal for an extension of more than one year must be approved by the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee.
The written appeal for an extension must explain why the deadline was not or will not be met and propose substitute deadlines. The appeal should be submitted to:
Registrar’s Office
MSOE
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
If the Graduate Student Advancement Subcommittee grants a time extension, the subcommittee will outline academic requirements the student must meet prior to graduation. These may include additional course requirements, reflecting changes in the degree program or updated content.
Directed Study Enrollment
In the unusual event that a student is unable to schedule a specific course required for graduation, the student may be eligible to register for a directed study. This option provides one-on-one instruction with an MSOE faculty member. Generally, permission to register for a directed study will be given only if the course is essential to the program of study and if the student is in the last quarter before graduation. Permission is subject to the availability of appropriate faculty, the recommendation of the program director and the approval by the department chair. A student seeking this registration may obtain the proper form from the Registrar’s Office. See the graduate tuition schedule for directed study charges.
Policy on Student Integrity
As an institution of higher learning, MSOE is committed above all to the educational development of its students as responsible and principled human beings, and is an institution accountable in this regard to all whom it serves and by whom it is scrutinized. MSOE has a priority interest in promoting personal integrity and in ensuring the authenticity of its graduates’ credentials.
The university is similarly mindful that both the professions and business and industry have, for a long time, been concerned with the ethical, no less than the professional, practice of their members and employees. It follows, therefore, that students of MSOE - preparing for professional careers and leadership roles that are founded on responsibility and trust - must observe and be guided by the highest standards of personal integrity both in and out of the classroom.
The expectations of the university with respect to academic and classroom integrity are reflected in, but not limited to, the following guidelines:
The student must recognize that even a poorly developed piece of work that represents his or her best efforts is far more worthwhile than the most outstanding piece of work taken from someone else.
Assignments prepared outside of class must include appropriate documentation of all borrowed ideas and expressions. The absence of such documentation constitutes “plagiarism,” which is the knowing or negligent use of the ideas, expressions or work of another with intent to pass such materials off as one’s own.
The student should consistently prepare for examinations so as to reduce temptation toward dishonesty.
A student may not share examination answers with others for the purpose of cheating, nor should he or she, through carelessness, give them an opportunity to obtain the same.
The student should know that a person of integrity will not support, encourage or protect others who are involved in academic dishonesty in any way, and will furthermore attempt to dissuade another student from engaging in dishonest acts.
The institutional policy that follows includes prescribed procedures for the assigning of penalties by instructors in instances of academic dishonesty as well as procedures for student appeals of such actions. A student who in any way acts dishonestly in class assignments or examinations or who submits a plagiarized or unoriginal work to an instructor shall be subject to sanctions up to and including an “F” grade for the assignment, examination and/or the course at the discretion of the instructor of the course. The numerical value of the “F” will be assigned by the instructor. If the instructor assigns an “F” for the course, the student will not be allowed to drop the course. If the instructor assigns an “F” for academic dishonesty, the student has the right to appeal following established procedures. Upon recommendation of the instructor or at his own initiation, the vice president of academics may decide that repeated or extremely serious acts of dishonesty may be grounds for more severe disciplinary action up to and including student expulsion.
Academic Dishonesty Procedure And Appeals Process
The student will be notified by the faculty member either within three academic working days of the faculty member’s awareness of the problem or at the next class session attended by the student. The faculty member will notify the student using the form designed for notification. A copy of this notice will be sent to the department chairperson and the vice president of academics. The vice president of academics will retain all such reports in a permanent file.
The procedure outlined in steps 1-7 below will be used if a student wishes to appeal a faculty member’s judgment that academic dishonesty has occurred.
The student will have three academic working days after delivery of the written notification to initiate an appeal to the chairperson of the department in which the faculty member serves. The student will be deemed to have waived his/her right to appeal unless he/she files the appeal with the department chairperson within these three academic working days. The statement of appeal must specify each denial of the faculty member’s decision and the substance of the contentions upon which the student intends to rely in his/her appeal. Filing notices of appeal in accordance with these provisions shall not suspend the operations of the sanction previously declared in the case by the faculty member. The student will remain in class during the entire appeal process.
The department chairperson will have three academic working days in which to review the appeal. The sole purpose of the department chairperson’s review is to determine if sufficient evidence exists that the student was engaged in academic dishonesty. The chairperson must inform the student and faculty member of his/her judgment within those three academic working days.
The student or faculty member may further appeal to the vice president of academics within three academic working days.
The vice president of academics shall convene an academic review board to hear the student’s appeal within a reasonable time (if possible, within three academic working days of the appeal). The academic review board shall be made up of two department chairpersons selected by the vice president of academics, and one faculty member selected by the vice president of academics and agreed upon by the person initiating the appeal. The vice president of academics will be a nonvoting chairperson. The faculty member assigning the penalty and his/her department chairperson may not be on the board.
The sole purpose of the academic review board is to determine if sufficient evidence exists that the student was cheating. The academic review board shall render its decision after all sufficient evidence has been presented, but in a time period not to exceed three academic working days from the commencement of its proceedings. The decision of the academic review board in appeal cases is final and cannot be further appealed under procedures established herein.
All appeals established by this procedure must be in writing.
The student may bring a representative to any meeting established under this procedure. The faculty member also may have representation at any meeting. If a student wishes to appeal the penalty, such an appeal must be in writing and must follow the procedure on graduate “
Grade Appeals and Termination from a Graduate Program
” appearing elsewhere in this catalog.
Academic Advising
Each degree program at MSOE has a designated program director who acts as mentor and academic counselor for all students in that program. Incoming students are provided with a catalog and program outline. For those students who meet all of the graduate admission requirements, the program outline identifies all required courses and the exact credit breakdown related to electives.
Most of the graduate programs require new students to meet with the program director prior to registering for the first course to ensure that the new students understand the curriculum and future scheduling procedures. Students are encouraged to call the program director or faculty advisor whenever they have questions about the program. In subsequent quarters, students whose cumulative grade point average falls below a specified minimum (normally 3.00) will be required to consult with the program director prior to registration.
The program director, designated faculty advisors, department chairpersons and the registrar work together to ensure that students in a particular degree program make satisfactory progress without violating prerequisites.
It is recommended that students with a designated advisor consult with him/her during each spring quarter to review their current academic program. At that time, they may discuss with the advisor a provisional study program for the next academic year.
Prerequisite Policy
The student is responsible for ensuring that he or she has successfully completed all prerequisites before taking a course. If any prerequisites have not been successfully completed by the start of the course, the student is required to drop the course. Students in violation of this prerequisite policy are subject to removal from the course. The student will be allowed to continue in the course only if a prerequisite waiver is approved by the appropriate program director. Prerequisites are listed in the
Course Descriptions
section of the academic catalog.
Student Attendance Policy
MSOE expects all graduate students to attend regularly and promptly all lectures, laboratories and other sessions of courses for which they are registered.
Graduate students are expected to attend and contribute to all class sessions. However, the faculty recognizes that business travel or other factors may force students to miss some classes. Students should notify their instructor as early as possible if they will be forced to miss a class, and they should make arrangements to make up any missed work. Unexcused absences may result in a lowering of the grade or being dropped from the course.
Adding/dropping Courses and Changing Sections
If a change of schedule is necessary, this may be done in the Registrar’s Office before 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week of classes.
Students may neither add a course nor change sections after 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the first week.
This policy also must be followed by students taking courses available on a credit/noncredit basis who want to change from credit to noncredit status or from noncredit to credit status.
A student may drop a course and receive a grade of “W” after the first week and
before 6 p.m. on Monday of the eighth week of classes.
Drop forms are available in the Registrar’s Office or at http://inside.msoe.edu/registrar/forms. These must be completed, properly signed and received by the Registrar’s Office before the deadline for dropping courses. Tuition refunds will be based on the date the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office, not on the date of last class attendance.
All students are responsible for their academic schedule. Students should not rely on instructors to drop them for nonattendance.
Students enrolled at off-campus locations are required to meet the same deadlines. Forms may be sent via facsimile to the Registrar’s Office. For more information, call the Registrar’s Office at (414) 277-7215.
Withdrawal from All Classes
Students who wish to drop all classes must complete a withdrawal form, which is available in the Registrar’s Office or at http://inside.msoe.edu/registrar/forms.
This must be done before 4:30 p.m. on Friday of the tenth week of classes.
Tuition refunds will be based on the date of official withdrawal, NOT on the date of last class attendance. The official withdrawal date is the date that the completed form is received by the Registrar’s Office. Should a student fail to meet the withdrawal deadline, he/she will be responsible for tuition for all scheduled classes and will receive final grades in all of them.
Students enrolled at off-campus locations are required to meet the same deadlines. Forms may be sent via facsimile to the Registrar’s Office. For more information, contact the Registrar’s Office at (414) 277-7215.
Transfer of Graduate Credit
A maximum of nine credit hours (or three MSOE courses, whichever is less), of approved graduate work taken at another institution may be transferred with the consent of the appropriate program director. A course completed at another institution must meet the following conditions to be accepted for credit: (1) it was taken for graduate credit; (2) a grade of “B” or better was earned; and (3) it was taken not earlier than five years prior to the first course in the program.
If transfer credit is granted, the grades earned in those courses will not be counted in the MSOE grade point average.
Transfer of graduate credit for a non-elective course
Transfer credit will be granted for a non-elective course in a program only if the course content of the non-elective course was met in the proposed transfer course.
Applicants should send a letter to the program director identifying the course(s) they wish to transfer and the MSOE course(s) for which they propose to substitute. The letter also should contain any catalog course descriptions and course syllabi for the proposed transfer courses to assist the program director in assigning transfer credit.
If transfer credit is approved by the program director, it will be indicated on the transcript as “TR” next to the course number for which transfer credit was granted.
Transfer of an elective course
Elective courses may be one of two types:
Restricted elective - such as a technical elective
Non-restricted or “free elective”
Transfer credit granted for restricted electives will follow the policies footnoted on the official curriculum track of the student’s program.
Any graduate course meeting the conditions for acceptable graduate credit, and that have relevance to the program, will be allowed to transfer for a non-restricted elective. The decision of relevance will be made by the program director.
Transfer credit approved to take the place of an elective course will be indicated on the transcript with a “TR” designation. The course title will indicate the subject matter of the transferred course and will be determined by the program director. The course number will be indicated as EL1 for non-restricted electives and EL1R for restricted electives.
Procedure for Changing Graduate Program
A student wishing to change from one graduate program to another must complete a Graduate Change of Program Request form (available from the Registrar’s Office) and consult with the director of the program to which the student is applying. The program director will determine if entrance requirements of the new program are met, and if any additional materials are required. At the time the student is accepted into the new program, the student’s previously completed course work will be evaluated to determine which courses will qualify to meet requirements of the new program. Only those courses used to fulfill the program track of the new program will be included in the GPA that is used to determine if the student meets GPA requirements.
Awarding of Two Master’s Degrees
MSE and MSEM
A student may pursue both the MSE and MSEM either concurrently or separately.
For students pursuing both degrees, up to six credits may be shared between the MSE and MSEM programs as follows:
Students may use one three-credit MSE course to satisfy three of the elective credits in the MSEM program.
Students may use two three-credit MSEM courses to satisfy the six elective credits in the MSE program.
MSCBM, MSEM, MSNP, MSXM
A student who has earned a MSCBM, MSEM, MSNP or MSXM degree may be awarded 15 credits towards the pursuit of a second degree, either MSCBM, MSEM, MSNP or MSXM.
Auditing a Class
To audit a course, a student must be accepted by MSOE as a regular or nondegree graduate student. The student must have an appropriate background in the course subject area. At the completion of the audit, no letter grade is issued and no graduate credit is awarded. A notation is made on the student’s transcript of successful/unsuccessful audit based upon the course requirements. The tuition rate for audit of graduate level course work is specified in the “
Graduate Tuition
” section of this catalog.
Undergraduate/Graduate Courses
Courses whose numbers start with “5” are generally open to both undergraduate and graduate students. The instructor will typically give additional assignments to the graduate students.
Undergraduate/graduate courses have a double designation. Students taking them for graduate credit register under the 500-level designation. Those taking them for undergraduate credit, including graduate students fulfilling prerequisite requirements, register under a 400-level designation. Graduate tuition is charged for such courses having the 500-level designation.
Undergraduates who meet the grade point requirements for graduate study may enroll in 500-level courses and receive graduate credit, so long as they have not already taken the equivalent undergraduate course.
Receiving Graduate Credit for an Undergraduate Course
MSOE recognizes that on occasion a graduate student having a free elective in his/her graduate program may wish to enroll in an undergraduate course that contains subject matter of particular interest to the student, and to receive graduate credit for so doing. MSOE also recognizes that graduate students need to be held to a higher academic standard than do undergraduate students. The following policy shall therefore be in effect regarding graduate students wishing to receive graduate credit for attending an undergraduate course:
In the quarter preceding the one in which the undergraduate class is offered, the graduate student shall contact his/her graduate program director and request a graduate independent study form. The student shall then contact the instructor of the undergraduate course in question, and will explain his/her desire to obtain graduate credit for the course. The graduate student will ask the instructor if he/she is willing to assign and grade an additional project or projects to supplement the standard undergraduate course materials, in order to raise the level of the course to that of a graduate offering. The student also will request permission to attend the lecture and/or lab portions of the course, along with its undergraduate enrollees. If the instructor and the department chair of the department offering the course so agree, then the student will ask the instructor to complete the independent study form, which stipulates all requirements for completing the course for graduate credit. The student should submit the original, signed, independent study form to the registrar. The student will then register for the course just as he/she would for any graduate independent study course. Upon completion of all stipulated requirements, the instructor will award the student a grade for the course, and the student will receive graduate credit for that course.
The procedure will not apply to courses that already carry an undergraduate/graduate (U/G) designation. Such courses may be taken for graduate credit simply by registering for the appropriate course number, as discussed above.
Students wising to transfer in course work from another institution for graduate credit may only do so if the course work carries a U/G or G designation, as stated in that institution’s official catalog.
Receiving Undergraduate Credit for a Graduate Course
The following provisions do not apply to students in approved undergraduate/graduate dual degree programs. Current MSOE undergraduate students may take graduate-level courses for one of two reasons: for the course to count toward the student’s undergraduate degree to fulfill elective requirements, or to reserve the graduate credit for future use toward a graduate degree. An undergraduate student must have achieved senior standing (completion of 144 credits) and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 before taking any graduate course. Program directors are required to inform the registrar of students taking graduate courses under this policy. A student may not apply the credits from any course to both the undergraduate and graduate degrees unless the course is part of an approved curriculum. If the number of undergraduate and graduate credits in a quarter total 12 or more credits, the undergraduate student will be charged tuition as if all credits were undergraduate credits. If the number of undergraduate and graduate credits in a quarter total less than 12 credits, the student will be charged tuition on a per-credit basis at undergraduate rates for undergraduate credits and graduate rates for graduate credits.
Taking a graduate course for undergraduate credit
Current MSOE undergraduate students who wish to take a graduate course for undergraduate credit will not have to formally apply to the graduate program to take the graduate course. However, before taking the course, the undergraduate student must receive permission from the department chair to ensure the course will fulfill undergraduate degree requirements and from the graduate course program director to ensure the student is qualified to take the course. Each program director is to decide which, if any, courses within their program may be taken by undergraduate students for undergraduate credit. These courses shall have “Open to undergraduate students with permission of course program director” added to the list of prerequisites in the catalog and the quarterly schedule of classes.
Taking a graduate course for graduate credit
Current MSOE undergraduate students who wish to take a graduate course and reserve it for graduate credit must get the approval of the program director whose curriculum encompasses the course before taking any graduate courses. An undergraduate student may not reserve more than nine graduate credits. These nine credits are not to be applied toward the limit of transferring nine credits into a graduate program. These reserved credits are subject to evaluation upon admission to a graduate program, but will not count toward the transfer credit limit of that program.
Full-Time Status
MSOE graduate students are classified as enrolled full time if they are registered for nine or more graduate credits as of the close of business on Friday of the first week of the quarter. For financial aid purposes, a student must be enrolled in a minimum of three graduate credits per quarter to be eligible for student loans and deferment of student loans.
Graduation Requirements
Satisfactory completion of all courses listed in the student’s program of study within the past seven years (unless a time extension has been officially granted).
A cumulative grade point average of 3.00 or higher in graduate course work counted toward the degree.
Degrees are conferred at the end of the Fall, Winter, Spring and Summer Quarters. The official graduation date will be the end of the quarter in which all graduation requirements have been met. In order to receive a diploma, students must also participate in the university Commencement. Formal ceremonies are conducted at the end of Fall, Winter and Spring Quarters. Students are expected to meet all graduation requirements by the time they participate in Commencement. An exception will be made for students intending to complete no more than two courses during the summer months; these students may participate in the Spring Commencement. Program directors will verify that students qualify to attend Commencement. Students must apply for graduation in the Registrar’s Office by the dates posted on the Registrar’s Office website,
www.msoe.edu/registrar
.
Graduation Procedures
Each student must apply for graduation by completing a Graduation Application Form and submitting it to the Registrar’s Office no later than the end of the seventh week of the quarter preceding the quarter in which the student expects to graduate. Graduation applications are available from the Registrar’s Office or on the Registrar’s Office website. Medical informatics students must also apply to the Medical College of Wisconsin for graduation and have their picture taken. Contact the Medical informatics program director for further instructions.
For those who submit a Graduation Application Form by the above stated deadline, the Registrar’s Office, in conjunction with the program director, will do preliminary graduation checks before the end of the first week of the quarter in which the students plan to graduate, and notify them if additional courses are required.
A student completing graduation requirements by the end of a quarter, but who has not submitted a Graduation Application Form by the above stated deadline, may participate in the Commencement exercises with approval of the program director. The diploma for the student may, however, be delayed.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.