Graduate Studies Programs - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Graduate Studies Programs
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
For a
Graduate Catalog
and more information on any of these programs, please call (800) 332-6763, or (414) 277-6763 in the Milwaukee area.
Master of Science in Construction and Business Management
The new Master of Science in Construction and Business Management  degree was created in conjunction with the Rader School of Business and  the Architectural Engineering/Building Construction Department. The  degree targets professionals who are working in, or have experience in,  the construction industry. It teaches professionals the leadership tools  necessary to compete in the ever-changing and highly competitive  construction management environment. It provides students with advanced  skills and understanding in construction project administration and  business management.
Courses are focused on business development, new and emerging  technologies for construction and project delivery systems, and  executive administration of construction firms. The degree prepares  graduates for upper-management positions in the construction industry.
Master of Science in Engineering
The Master of Science in Engineering (MSE) program enables graduate  engineering professionals to further their problem solving skills  through the application of advanced engineering principles and methods.  The strength of this program is in its flexibility. The program offers  students the opportunity to advance their quantitative skills through a  series of mathematics and modeling based courses; and provides for their  choice of specialty courses in electrical engineering or mechanical  engineering and/or other related fields.
The MSE is aimed toward engineers who are involved with industrial  projects. Students are encouraged to take engineering courses both  within and outside their discipline. Courses include topics such as  simulation and modeling, operations research, quality engineering,  advanced engineering mathematics, finite element analysis, advanced  mechanics, fluid power systems, data communications, control systems and  advanced electronic systems.
A nine credit capstone engineering project option is included as part  of the program. The non-project option is also available, which  includes two specialty courses and a three credit engineering paper in  the specialty.
Master of Science in Engineering Management
The Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) program is a  technology-oriented management degree designed to meet the needs of  engineers, business managers, and other professional and technical  personnel desiring to strengthen their management and leadership skills.  Graduates of the program possess broad business management knowledge  and skills and are prepared to move into general management positions in  a wide range of industries.
The MSEM program is based on the philosophy that, for companies to  grow and compete domestically and internationally, their managers and  leaders need a deep understanding of technology, management and  effective leadership principles. Faculty members have extensive business  experience and are committed to mentoring students to increase  students’ value to current and prospective employers. In addition to  their academic qualifications, most are employed in the discipline they  teach. Areas of particular emphasis include organizational leadership,  project management, operations management, financial management,  technical sales and marketing, entrepreneurship, quality and continuous  improvement, policy and strategy, supply chain management, and  international business. In addition to offering the MSEM program in  Milwaukee, the degree program is offered in Appleton, Brookfield,  Waukesha, and other Wisconsin areas.
Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management
The Master of Science in Marketing and Export Management program  (MSXM) is a technology-oriented leadership program designed to meet the  needs of engineers, business managers and other professional and  technical persons desiring to strengthen their management and leadership  skills specifically relating to the value-added exporting of U.S.  manufactured products, services and technology. Graduates of the program  possess the broad range of knowledge and skills necessary for  management or entrepreneurial positions in a wide range of international  markets.
The MSXM program is based upon the philosophy that for organizations  to effectively compete in the increasingly international marketplace  their managers need a deep understanding of global business practices.  This knowledge enables graduates to provide the leadership required to  enhance the company’s market presence and competitive value for products  and services in a world market. Learning in the MSXM is facilitated by a  faculty having extensive knowledge of the global business environment  and international markets, as well excelling in a focused business area  or field of learning. In addition to their academic qualifications, most  are employed in the discipline(s) they teach. Faculty-to-student ratio  is kept small to allow extensive interaction among faculty and students.  The program offers students a cultural immersion capstone including two  weeks of travel to businesses outside the United States.
Master of Science in Medical Informatics
Medical informatics is information science applied to health care.  More specifically, it is the applied science at the junction of the  disciplines of medicine, business and information technology, which  supports the health care delivery process and promotes measurable  improvements in both quality of care and cost-effectiveness. The mission  of the program is to provide an applied graduate educational experience  that prepares professionals to participate in and lead  multidisciplinary teams in the development, implementation and  management of information technology solutions in health care. This  program is available on a full- or part-time basis.
Master of Science in New Product Management
Success in developing and deploying new products depends in large  part on providing products that can compete globally, as well as  domestically. Effective new product management is a critical success  factor for all companies, regardless of their markets.
The Master of Science in New Product Management (MSNP) program  provides students a framework to enhance an organization’s ability to  effectively identify, develop and deploy new products and services.  Students learn how to effectively apply tools and techniques to identify  the products and/or services that leverage the unique strengths and  position of an organization, including brand identity, reputation,  capabilities (current and needed), market opportunities and resources.  Further, the MSNP program prepares individuals to identify and  capitalize on both domestic and international markets.
Master of Science in Perfusion/Cardiovascular Studies
Perfusion, the science of supporting or replacing a patient’s  circulatory or respiratory function, is an operating room discipline of  critical importance in invasive surgery. The program includes extensive  clinical experience and emphasizes health science information along with  the technology involved in perfusion.
The Master of Science in Cardiovascular Studies is a stand-alone  degree, as well as an option to the perfusion degree. It offers  perfusionists, who currently have a B.S. degree, the opportunity to  obtain a master’s degree without repeating clinical experiences.  Additionally, it is available to others who are working or who have a  desire to work in a related area, but who do not need the perfusion  clinical experience.
The M.S. in perfusion is available on a full-time basis. The M.S. in  cardiovascular studies is available on either a full-time or part-time  basis.
Master of Science in Structural Engineering
This program emphasizes building structural design and analysis, and  meets the needs of students who desire increased knowledge to design  modern building structural systems.
Courses focus on structural design topics such as advanced design of  structural steel members and systems, light-gage metal members and  structures, reinforced concrete members and structures, wood structures,  masonry structures, foundations, and selection of structural systems.  Courses on advanced structural analysis, including applications of the  finite element method, structural dynamics and structural stability, are  also presented to provide a broader theoretical background for  structural design. Students with an appropriate undergraduate degree can  complete the program in five years on a part-time basis or as little as  two years on a full-time basis.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.