Enrollment Management Department - Milwaukee School of Engineering
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
President’s Welcome
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Accounts, Fees and Financial Aid
Other Academic Resources
Academic Departments, Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Two-degree Programs
Graduate Studies Programs
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
My Portfolio
HELP
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Enrollment Management Department
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Undergraduate Admission
General Undergraduate Admission Guidelines
Transfer Students
Transfer of Grades and Courses
Nonimmigrant International Undergraduate Admission
Continuing Studies and Outreach
Main Office: Student Life and Campus Center, CC-302
Phone:
Local: (414) 277-6763
Toll Free: (800) 332-6763
Fax: (414) 277-7475
Email:
explore@msoe.edu
Website:
admissions.msoe.edu
Undergraduate Admission
The university maintains its long-standing tradition as an Equal  Opportunity Educator. As such, MSOE does not discriminate in its  educational opportunities on the basis of an individual’s race,  religion, sex, color, age, national origin, sexual orientation, physical  or mental disability, veteran status or other factors prohibited by  federal or state law.
Applicants who are accepted for admission are considered to have  intellectual ability and personal qualifications necessary to pursue  successfully a course of study at MSOE on a full- or part-time basis.  Under certain circumstances, students will have to augment their  secondary education in preparation for college-level study. Students  wishing to enroll in full-time degree programs, or those interested in  part-time study in degree programs, courses and all noncredit classes,  may obtain appropriate admission material by going online at
www.msoe.edu/admiss
or by contacting the Enrollment Management  Department.
General Undergraduate Admission Guidelines
MSOE reviews all prior academic experience and seeks to determine the  potential for success within the applicant’s chosen field of study. In  order to ensure preparation for the applicant’s chosen field of study,  the following standard guidelines for admission are offered:
A completed admission application must be on file.
An official high school transcript must be submitted.
Graduation from an approved high school or the equivalent (GED  test score of 265 prior to 2002.) Individuals that have taken the 2002  Series GED Tests must earn a minimum score of 460 on each test in the  battery with a minimum total test score of 2,500.
Results of the American College Testing (ACT) program  examination or Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) also are acceptable.  Students who have completed 24 or more college credits, or who have been  out of high school for two or more years, are not required to submit  test results.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission  become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any  time.
A student may be granted:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into his/her desired program of study.
Denied admittance: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
Transfer Students
Students who wish to transfer to MSOE must submit:
An admission application.
An official transcript(s) of all previously completed college course work.
High school transcripts, (if less than one year or 24 semester credits of college work).
Transfer students who apply for financial aid are required to  submit financial aid transcripts from the Financial Aid Office of any  previously attended colleges.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission  become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any  time.
Students may be granted:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into his/her desired program of study.
Denied admission: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
Transfer of Grades and Courses
Students transferring to MSOE will establish an MSOE grade point average after their first term of attendance. A student’s previous college grade point average will not be transferable.
A course grade of “C” or better is required to be considered for transfer.
All past academic work is evaluated on an individual basis with respect to courses that appear in the most recent MSOE catalog for the program to which the individual is applying, except for course work in programs where MSOE has specific articulated agreements (in which case the evaluation is per provisions in the applicable agreement).
Transfer credit evaluations are prepared by the department chairperson who oversees the academic program into which the student is transferring.* Transfer credit is considered provisional until the student’s subsequent MSOE course work confirms that he/she is sufficiently prepared for subsequent courses. Appeal of transfer credit evaluations should be made to the Registrar’s Office.
Credit for military service or work experience is determined by conference and/or examination by the academic department chairperson responsible for the material.
At least 50 percent of required credits for an undergraduate degree must be taken at MSOE.
* The decision for specific course transfer is determined by the chairperson from the department that offers the course.
Nonimmigrant International Undergraduate Admission
To be considered for admission, students must:
Complete an admission application.
Demonstrate their English proficiency by providing official TOEFL or the IELTS test results. The minimum test score requirements are:
TOEFL Internet-Based - 79
TOEFL Paper - 550
TOEFL Computerized - 213
IELTS - 6.5
Submit English language translation of transcripts of all academic work showing a minimum of 12 years of academic study, including detailed grades.
Include a copy of a valid passport.
Attach the original signature sheet to the application.
Provide an official completed certification of financial responsibility showing funds available for the first year of study.
Students transferring from a school in the United States must submit an International Student Transfer Form, completed by their international student advisor.
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any time.
After all these documents have been received, an applicant’s entire file will be reviewed for admission. A student may receive:
Full acceptance: A student is accepted directly into his/her desired program of study. Some ESL requirements may need to be satisfied based on the student’s TOEFL/IELTS score.
Conditional admission: A student is accepted to his or her desired program of study based on their ability to complete an approved, intensive ESL program. Contact the Admission Office for a list of approved ESL programs.
Denied admission: A student is denied admittance based on academic information supplied at the time of application.
Note: Accepted non-immigrant foreign applicants who do not register for classes in the designated term must return the I-20 form to MSOE .
Continuing Studies and Outreach
Main Office: Rosenberg Hall, R07
Phone:
Local: (414) 277-7530
Toll-Free: (800) 321-6763
Fax: (414) 277-2895
Email:
cso@msoe.edu
Website:
www.msoe.edu/cso
Continuing Studies and Outreach provides working adults the opportunity to gain an undergraduate degree through evening and, in some cases, weekend courses. CSO also offers certificates and certifications, workshops, seminars, and services for business and industry. (Note: graduate degrees are available through Continuing Studies and Outreach and are described in the
Graduate Catalog
.)
Undergraduate Degrees
An adult who has an associate degree or earned college credits can complete an undergraduate degree in one of the following disciplines:
Bachelor of Science in Business Management
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology
Bachelor of Science in Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Technology
Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication
Other degree programs are available for adult students but may not be completed solely through evening classes.
The following documents must be submitted for enrollment in these programs:
A completed admission application.
A transcript(s) of all previously completed college work.
High school transcripts (if less than 24 semester credits of college work).
All documents submitted to MSOE for consideration of admission become property of MSOE and will not be returned to the applicant at any time.
Upon receipt of these documents, the applicant’s prior college work will be reviewed by the various academic departments and the applicant will be granted:
Full acceptance. The student is accepted directly into his/her desired program of study.
Denied admittance. Applicants denied admission to MSOE may appeal the decision, either in writing or in person, by contacting Continuing Studies and Outreach.
Non-matriculated status: The student has not been accepted into a program of study but may take up to three courses for one quarter. At the end of the quarter the student must have earned a 2.50 grade point average to be considered for full acceptance or must have completed or submitted any outstanding documents or requirements so an admission decision may be finalized.
Non-degree status: The student has not been accepted into a program of study but may complete up to 30 credits in their area(s) of interest.
Seminars and Workshops
Seminars and workshops are offered to provide working adults the opportunity to stay abreast of cutting-edge technologies, current applications and techniques. Continuing Education Units (CEUs) are awarded to attendees. Formats range from two-hour seminars to two-day symposiums and workshops. Participants must complete a registration form and satisfy any prerequisite requirements.
Certificates
Certificate-level training is conducted to provide the best means to transfer knowledge. Participants are tested upon completion of the certificate program to demonstrate an understanding of the material. Some certificates are eligible for academic credit.
Certifications
Certifications go beyond transferring knowledge. Participants are required to pass the required certification tests and must demonstrate their ability to use the knowledge gained, thus displaying a mastery of the knowledge and skills they have learned. Participants are evaluated on their ability to successfully demonstrate the use of their knowledge.
A complete list of non-credit certificates and certifications can be found at
www.msoe.edu/wp/cert/
.
Academic Credit for Certificates and Certifications
Current MSOE students may be eligible to earn academic credit for successful completion of a certificate or certification. A current student is defined as one who has been admitted to an academic program, is in good academic standing and is currently pursuing a degree.
To qualify for academic credit:
The student should check with his/her academic advisor to make sure the certificate or certification satisfies a credit requirement for their academic program.
Upon completion of the certificate or certification, the student should provide his/her academic advisor with a copy of his/her completion record, which includes attendance information and test results. The record may be obtained from the Continuing Studies and Outreach Department.
The academic advisor should verify that student’s information on the student’s electronic transcript and should notify the Registrar’s Office either by email or in writing that the student has satisfied the course requirements.
The registrar will assign the credit to the student and will file the documentation, provided by the advisor, in the student’s file. A letter grade will not be assigned to MSOE courses awarded for BEC training. A student’s academic record will include a designation of equivalent credit bearing course(s) and the notation of TR.
Business Excellence Consortium (BEC)
With approximately 200 member companies, the BEC is MSOE’s center for business solutions. BEC consultants work with organizations to guide them towards world-class performance. This can involve helping companies and their executive teams with strategic planning, business and continuous improvement assessments, program implementation, and coaching. The BEC provides networking opportunities for members to share best practices.
Customized On-site Training
As part of its services, the BEC provides customized training programs for organizations that can include non-credit certificate- and certification-level programs. This enables training programs to take advantage of practical applications within the organization to apply the theory involved with the training. It is possible to arrange for MSOE academic courses to be taught on-site at a company’s facility.
Back to Top
|
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.