University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Admissions Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
Degree Programs, Minors, and Certificates
University Scholars Honors Program
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. (ROTC)
English for Academic Purposes (EAP)
Course Descriptions
Administration, Regents, Faculty, and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Core Values
MSOE’s Constituents
General Education
Accreditation
The MSOE Guarantee
Degree Programs
Study Abroad
Vision Statement
MSOE will set the standard for preparing leaders to solve the diverse technical challenges of the 21st century.
Mission Statement
MSOE is the university of choice for those seeking an inclusive community of experiential learners driven to solve the complex challenges of today and tomorrow.
Core Values
Collaboration - We value working together across boundaries.
Excellence - We value the pursuit and achievement of excellence.
Inclusion - We value authentic engagement with diverse people, beliefs, and ideas.
Innovation - We value creativity and new ideas for life-long service, discovery, and growth.
Integrity - We value doing the right thing in a reliable way.
Stewardship - We value the responsible use of our resources.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities including but not limited to the business, educational, and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and gain insights from them and provide them services of value.
MSOE Undergraduate General Education Requirements
MSOE’s academic degrees are designed to provide graduates with an education that will enable them to pursue productive professional careers. Yet, the purpose of a college education is more than just to help graduates obtain a good job. It should also assist graduates in becoming well-rounded individuals, capable of contributing to society at-large. Because of this, all MSOE students are expected to take course work not just in their major field of study, but also in mathematics, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities, in order to obtain a baccalaureate degree from MSOE. Courses taken outside of one’s major field of study are part of MSOE’s General Education requirements. All MSOE baccalaureate degrees are designed by the MSOE faculty to include credits needed to meet the General Education Requirements indicated below. However, in some cases, students have some choice in the courses they may use to meet the General Education Requirements specified as part of their degree tracks. The philosophy, expected learning outcomes, and course work associated with MSOE’s General Education Requirements are discussed below.
Undergraduate General Education Philosophy
The integration of General Education Requirements into undergraduate programs at MSOE provides graduates with the cornerstone of knowledge, skills, and habits of mind necessary to be well-rounded individuals and lifelong learners. MSOE’s general education fosters skills in mathematical and scientific reasoning, communication and information literacy, and provides a foundation in culture and cultural values, ethics and integrity, as well as professional and social responsibilities. As an institution, MSOE cultivates a climate that fosters independent thinking, personal growth, and professional development.
Undergraduate Common Learning Outcomes
Upon graduation, MSOE undergraduates will be able to:
Articulate professional ethics
Collaborate effectively as a team member
Communicate effectively
Exhibit the mindset of a global citizen
Practice evidence-based decision making
Use analysis and synthesis to solve problems
General Education Curriculum and Credit Requirements
A set of curriculum requirements for all undergraduate programs is defined to ensure student learning results in achieving the Common Learning Outcomes (CLOs).
A
minimum total of 52 credits
must be earned. Each topical area within General Education has a minimum required set of courses and/or credits that must be met.
I. Freshman Studies - 12 Credits Minimum
At a minimum, students are required to complete all the following courses*:
GS 1001
Freshman Studies I (4 credits)
GS 1002
Freshman Studies II (4 credits)
GS 1003
Freshman Studies III (4 credits)
* Students enrolled in the University Scholars Honors Program meet these requirements through the program-required curriculum.
II. Mathematics and Science - 16 Credits Minimum
A. Mathematics
Students must earn a
minimum of four credits
of college-level mathematics, inclusive of a statistics course.
B. Science
Students must earn a
minimum of four credits
of college-level science courses, with an associated lab.
The
sum total
of the college-level courses in mathematics and science courses must meet the
minimum requirement of 16 credits.
III. Humanities and Social Science - 15 Credits Minimum
A. Social Science
Students must earn
a minimum of six credits
of social science (SS) courses.
B. Humanities
Students must earn
a minimum of six credits
chosen from humanities (HU) courses.
The
sum total
of the social science (SS) and humanities (HU) courses must meet the
minimum requirement of 15 credits
. Programs can specify up to 6 credit hours within curriculum track.
IV. Ethics - 3 Credits Minimum
At a minimum, all students are required to complete one of the following three courses:
HU 332
Bioethics (3 credits)
HU 432
Ethics for Professional Managers and Engineers (3 credits)
HU 4321
Ethics of Digital Technologies and AI (3 credits)
V. General Education Elective - 3 Credits Minimum
Each academic program may identify at least
three additional credits
or allow students to select an elective to fulfil this requirement.
​
VI. Program Capstone Experience
- 3 Credits Minimum
A capstone course is required of all undergraduate programs. The capstone represents a cumulative experience whereby students demonstrate the knowledge and skills achieved during their MSOE education.
The MSOE Guarantee
This fall, millions of American students will begin their quest for a four-year college degree. However, for many, it will take five or more years to earn the degree. At some institutions, the courses needed to make steady academic progress are often unavailable to students when they need them. MSOE guarantees that will not happen to on-track students. We guarantee for a student starting and staying on track, all classes needed for graduation will be available when they need them. We also will do our best to accommodate all students, whether on track or not.
We also recognize there will be times when graduates need to brush up on the subject matter from a course they have successfully completed. MSOE guarantees that graduates may refresh their knowledge by repeating any undergraduate course they took at MSOE, at no cost, within three years of graduation. This will enhance their job performance and may be initiated by the graduate or the graduate’s employer. Courses retaken under the MSOE Guarantee will be taken on an audit basis and no grade will be earned.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, an institutional accreditation agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (230 South LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500, Chicago, IL 60604; 800-621-7440;
https://www.hlcommission.org/
). Individual degree programs are accredited by appropriate professional accreditation organizations as noted in each corresponding program outline.
The Academic Year
The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses also are offered during the summer. For more information, please see the
Academic Calendar
portion of this catalog.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Association of University Women
American Society for Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
Association of Independent Technological Universities
College Board
College Entrance Examination Board
College Scholarship Service Assembly
Council for Advancement and Support of Education
KEEN Engineering Unleashed
National Academic Advising Association
National Association for College Admission Counseling
National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Degree Programs
MSOE is dedicated to preparing graduates for productive and successful careers. Programs of study provide students with ample opportunities to progress in accordance with their individual abilities and professional goals. MSOE offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, noncredit courses and seminars, on-site and online educational offerings, and a variety of services that meet the needs of both full-time and part-time students, business and industry.
Students in a baccalaureate-level curriculum are encouraged to follow a carefully planned course progression track. These tracks, as well as program details, can be found in the “
Degrees, Minors, and Certificates by Department
” portion of this catalog. MSOE offers the following degree programs. The undergraduate programs are described fully in this catalog.
Bachelor’s Degrees
Actuarial Science
Architectural Engineering
Business Administration
Biomedical Engineering
BioMolecular Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Construction Management
Electrical Engineering
Engineering*
Industrial Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Nursing
Software Engineering
User Experience
*This program is no longer admitting students
Master’s Degrees
Architectural Engineering
Civil Engineering
Engineering
Engineering Management
MBA
MBA in Education Leadership
New Product Management
Nursing
Perfusion
MSOE also offers several double-major, dual-degree, and study-abroad programs.
Study Abroad
Global Opportunities
MSOE’s global programs are once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to experience another culture in depth while taking college-level courses toward your degree. MSOE encourages its students to consider the opportunity these programs offer. Certain academic requirements are applicable - see program director for details. Study abroad activities may be limited or suspended due to global events that may impact the safety of students, faculty, and staff.
Leaders in business and engineering today need a global perspective. For the future, we expect many employees will be required to have work experience abroad, some foreign language fluency, and be expected to understand the challenges that come with doing business in multiple markets. The MSOE graduate should prepare for this future by considering our global opportunities.
Germany
Electrical Engineering
,
Mechanical Engineering
or
Bachelor of Business Administration
students may spend their junior year at the Technische Hochschule Lübeck (THL), in Lübeck, Germany.
Founded in 1808, the university is similar to MSOE in that it is an applications-oriented institution. Situated near the Baltic Sea, the beautiful city of Lübeck is a center of commerce, industry and higher education, and offers a variety of recreational opportunities to young people. Much of its Middle Ages appearance is still intact in the older portion of town, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The MSOE program consists of two semesters at THL, with extensive breaks to travel throughout Europe.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Participation does not delay progress toward graduation since all course work taken is integrated into the curricula of each MSOE program.
Upon graduation, students have the opportunity to receive two degrees, one from MSOE and another from THL.
In 2009, the International Exchange Program in Electrical Engineering at MSOE received the Innovative Program Award from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Heads Association (ECEDHA).
Czech Republic
Students may study for a semester at one of the oldest and most respected technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. Founded in 1707, CTU consists of six schools and seven institutes with some 16,000 students enrolled in engineering courses. Prague’s famed diversity of architectural styles, the distinctive bridges arching the Vltava River and narrow, winding cobbled streets make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities. The city is the social and cultural center of Central Europe with an entrepreneurial energy coursing through its streets.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students have access to CTU course work beyond their selected major. In consultation with their academic advisor, students are thus able to select the number of credits taken at CTU that will transfer for academic credit toward their MSOE degree. (Taking classes that will not transfer to a student’s major may delay progress toward a degree.)
France
Students who participate in this study-abroad program will spend the month of June or July in Lille, France studying at Lille Catholic University. The program is open to all majors, and all courses are taught in English. Students can experience European culture while satisfying six credits (two classes) of humanities and/or engineering electives.
India
MSOE has an established relationship with Manipal University in India, a highly ranked university for engineering and technology. Students interested in studying in Manipal should discuss the possibility with the office of Global Opportunities in Student Life.
Italy
Rader School of Business, User Experience, and Construction Management students have the opportunity to study abroad at Florence University of the Arts in Florence, Italy. Students have a wide variety of elective courses to choose from, including sports management/marketing, intercultural communication, international banking, sustainability and much more. The program is currently designed to run for two MSOE academic quarters (either Fall/Winter or Winter/Spring). In Italy, students will take five classes during one semester and then two classes during the January intercession.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students work with their program director/advisor to select courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
Students will have the opportunity to take international courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
New Zealand
Study at the other end of the world and experience New Zealand’s breath-taking natural beauty, vibrant culture, and chat with the friendly locals (Kiwis).
Victoria University of Wellington, located in the country’s capital, is ranked #1 for research quality in New Zealand. Faculty members are passionate about their subjects and engage students with multiple learning styles. When you’re not in class, indulge in Wellington’s cafés, explore the stunning waterfront, or see where
Lord of the Rings
was filmed!
This program is open to Business Administration, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, User Experience, and Actuarial Science students.
Short-term Opportunities
Each year, MSOE offers various courses that include a travel component. There are always new and exciting trips that are between one and two weeks during break periods. All trips have a faculty advisor to facilitate connections between the classroom and the global experience. Students have traveled to Munich, Germany; St. Petersburg, Russia; and Havana, Cuba.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.