University Overview - Milwaukee School of Engineering
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Mar 12, 2026
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
Select a Catalog
2025-2026 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
2025-2026 Graduate Academic Catalog
2024-2025 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2024-2025 Graduate Academic Catalog-June [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog-June Update [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2023-2024 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2022-2023 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2018-2019 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2017-2018 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2016-2017 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2015-2016 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2014-2015 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2013-14 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2014 Graduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2012-2013 Undergraduate Academic Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
Global Search
Catalog Search
Choose Search Location
Select an option
Courses
Programs
Academic Departments
Other Content
Entire Catalog
Search Keyword Field
Whole Word/Phrase
Advanced Search
Catalog Navigation
Catalog Home
Academic Calendar
University Overview
Enrollment Management Department
Academic Regulations and Policies
Student Financial Services
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
Course Descriptions
Board of Regents, Academic Administration, Faculty and Advisory Committees
Campus Map
Student Resources
My Portfolio
HELP
2016-2017 Undergraduate Academic Catalog
[ARCHIVED CATALOG]
University Overview
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
Vision Statement
Mission Statement
Institutional Principles
MSOE’s Constituents
General Education
The MSOE Guarantee
Degree Programs
University Scholars Program
Study Abroad
Vision Statement
MSOE will always be at the forefront of professional education with emphasis on both theory and technology, coupled with intensive laboratories and career practice.
Mission Statement
MSOE provides a sustained interactive educational climate for students to become well-rounded, technologically experienced graduates and highly productive professionals and leaders.
Institutional Principles
The fundamental beliefs of Milwaukee School of Engineering are the following:
The focus is on the individual student.
Lifelong learning is essential for success.
Dedicated faculty with relevant, up-to-date experience are the heart of our teaching process.
Scientific and mathematical reasoning and processes are essential.
Applied research and evolving and interdisciplinary technologies are vital in exploiting opportunities.
The development of communication skills is needed to function effectively.
The student experience is strengthened by interaction with the business, industry and health care fields.
The development of leadership and entrepreneurial characteristics is essential.
Students, faculty, staff and volunteers all share the responsibility of learning.
Strong personal values are necessary for success.
The alumni strengthen the institution through their counsel, encouragement and support.
Freedom with responsibility is the foundation of free enterprise.
There is strength in diversity.
Global awareness must be reflected in all activities.
Initiation and acceptance of change is required to anticipate and capitalize on opportunities.
MSOE’s Constituents
As an institution of higher learning, it is important that we recognize our role in serving our stakeholders, both internal and external to the university. Milwaukee School of Engineering has identified its internal and external constituencies to be:
Students
Faculty
Staff
Administrators
Alumni
Families of current and prospective students
Employers of MSOE graduates
Local and regional communities, including but not limited to, the business, educational and professional segments of those communities.
We are committed to serving these constituencies. We seek to engage and to gain insights from them, and to provide them services of value.
MSOE Undergraduate General Education Requirements
MSOE’s academic degrees are designed to provide graduates with an education that will enable them to pursue productive professional careers in engineering, business and nursing. Yet, the purpose of a college education is more than just to help graduates obtain a good job. It should also assist graduates in becoming well-rounded individuals, capable of contributing to society at-large. Because of this, all MSOE students are expected to take course work not just in their major field of study, but also in mathematics, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities, in order to obtain a baccalaureate degree from MSOE. Courses taken outside of one’s major field of study are part of MSOE’s General Education requirements. All MSOE baccalaureate degrees are designed by the MSOE faculty to include credits needed to meet the General Education Requirements indicated below. However, in some cases, students have some choice in the courses they may use to meet the General Education Requirements specified as part of their degree tracks. The philosophy, expected learning outcomes, and coursework associated with MSOE’s General Education Requirements are discussed below.
Undergraduate General Education Philosophy
The integration of General Education Requirements into undergraduate programs at MSOE provides graduates with the cornerstone of knowledge, skills and habits of mind necessary to be well-rounded individuals and lifelong learners. MSOE’s general education fosters skills in mathematical and scientific reasoning, communication and information literacy, and provides a foundation in culture and cultural values, ethics and integrity, as well as professional and social responsibilities. As an institution, MSOE cultivates a climate that fosters independent thinking, personal growth and professional development.
Undergraduate Institutional Learning Outcomes (ILOs)
In accordance with the general education philosophy, the following Undergraduate Institutional Learning Outcomes have been established in three core topical areas of knowledge and proficiencies:
Mathematics and Science
A.   Mathematics
1.   An ability to process data, select an appropriate established model and calculate results.
2.   An ability to formulate a mathematical model and estimate the reasonableness of the results.
B.   Science
1.   An understanding of scientific language, scientific principles and the scientific method.
2.   An ability to conduct experiments and collect, analyze and evaluate data.
Professional Preparedness
A.   Information Literacy
1.   An ability to access and organize information.
2.   An ability to evaluate and analyze collected information.
B.   Communication Skills
1.   An ability to communicate information, ideas and results effectively via oral, written and visual means.
2.   An ability to produce professional quality presentations.
C.  Critical Thinking
1.   An ability to apply knowledge to problem solving and decision making.
2.   An ability to formulate creative solutions to problem solving and decision making.
D. Values and Ethics
1.   Familiarity with fundamental principles that lead to moral and ethical systems.
2.   An ability to apply appropriate ethical principles to one’s discipline.
Society and Culture
A.   Humanistic Studies
1.   Familiarity with contemporary social issues, cultural and historical perspectives, and expectations of responsible citizenship.
2.   Aesthetic engagement through exposure to literature, philosophy and the arts.
B.   Social Interaction
1.   An ability to work effectively as a member of a team.
2.   An ability to recognize the role of one’s discipline in the framework of social issues.
The education embodied in these Institutional Learning Outcomes ensures that the graduates demonstrate the habits that will allow them to grow professionally throughout their careers and personal lives.
General Education Curriculum and Credit Requirements
A set of curriculum requirements for all undergraduate programs is defined to ensure student learning results in achieving the Institutional Learning Outcomes (ILOs).
A
minimum total of 49 credits
must be earned in the three topical areas of General Education (i.e. Mathematics and Science, Professional Preparedness, and Society and Culture). Further, each topical area within General Education has a minimum required set of courses and/or credits that must be met.
Mathematics and Science - 16 Credits Minimum
A. Mathematics
Students must have a
minimum of four credits
of college-level mathematics, including topical coverage of statistics.
B. Science
Students must have a
minimum of four credits
of college-level science courses, appropriate for the program curriculum. An associated lab must be part of the academic experience.
The
sum total
of the college-level courses in mathematics and science courses must meet the
minimum requirement of 16 credits
, which count towards the total General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
Professional Preparedness - 15 Credits Minimum
The Professional Preparedness components are delivered in an integrated manner through specific required courses.
At a minimum, students are required to complete the following courses:
GS 1001
Freshman Studies I (4 credits)
GS 1002
Freshman Studies II (4 credits)
GS 1003
Freshman Studies III (4 credits)
And, all students are required to take:
HU 332
Bioethics (3 credits), or
HU 432
Ethics for Professional Managers and Engineers (3 credits)
Together these courses provide
15 credits
towards meeting the total minimum General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
Society and Culture - 15 Credits Minimum
The ILOs for Society and Culture are partially addressed in the required courses included in the category “Professional Preparedness”. Students must additionally select elective credits in the Social Sciences and Humanities to build upon their specified foundation courses.
Elective Requirements:
Students are required to complete at least
six credits
of social science (SS) electives and at least
six credits
of electives chosen from humanities (HU) electives.
Students are required to take
three additional credits
, which can be chosen from among either the humanities or social science electives.
These courses provide
15 credits
towards meeting the total minimum General Education credit requirement of 49 credits.
General Education Elective(s)-3 Credits Minimum
In addition to the credits required in the three categories outlined in Sections I through III above, each academic program may identify at least
three additional credits
in any one of the three categories (Mathematics and Science, Professional Preparedness, and Society and Culture) to reach the minimum 49 credit level required for the General Education component, or allow students to select an elective to fulfill this requirement. Courses which qualify as electives within the Professional Preparedness category are identified in the
Approved Professional Preparedness Electives
list.
V.         Program Capstone Experience
Complementary to the General Education Requirements is the capstone requirement in all undergraduate programs. The capstone represents a cumulative experience, whereby students demonstrate the knowledge and skills achieved during their MSOE education, and is used as a vehicle for assessing the degree of attainment of the ILOs.
Approved Professional Preparedness Electives
The courses that follow are approved for use as a student’s general education elective (see Item IV above) for the 2016/2017 Academic Year:
EN 432 - Business Communication
TC 242 - Persuasive Speech
TC 261 - Research Methods
TC 332 - Advanced Technical Writing
TC 342 - Professional Presentation Techniques
TC 351 - Organizational Communication
TC 452 - Interpersonal Communication
TC 453 - Intercultural Communication
MS 221 - Microeconomics
, or
MS 2220 - Foundations of Business Economics
MS 3401 - Lean Techniques
MS 3406 - Six Sigma Introduction
MS 3411 - Leading Project Teams
MS 3420 - International Management
MS 3423 - Innovation and Business Markets
MS 3425 - Entrepreneurship - An Overview
,
MS 3427 - The Business Plan
, and
MS 3429 - Entrepreneurial Finance
(1 credit each)
MS 344 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership Development
MS 462 - Technical Selling
The MSOE Guarantee
This fall, millions of American students will begin their quest for a four-year college degree. However, for many, it will take five or more years to earn the degree. At some institutions, the courses needed to make steady academic progress are often unavailable to students when they need them. MSOE guarantees that will not happen to on-track students. We guarantee for a student starting and staying on track, all classes needed for graduation will be available when they need them! We also will do our best to accommodate all students, be they on track or not.
We also recognize there will be times when graduates need to brush up on the subject matter from a course they have successfully completed. MSOE guarantees that graduates may refresh their knowledge by repeating any undergraduate course they took at MSOE, at no cost, within three years of graduation. This will enhance their job performance and may be initiated by the graduate or the graduate’s employer. Courses retaken under the MSOE Guarantee will be taken on an audit basis and no grade will be earned.
Accreditation
MSOE is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Individual degree programs are accredited by appropriate professional accreditation organizations as noted in each corresponding program outline.
The Academic Year
The academic year is divided into three 11-week quarters, September through May. Courses also are offered during the summer. For more information, please see the
Academic Calendar
portion of this catalog.
Affiliations
MSOE is an institutional member in the following organizations:
American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Medical Informatics Association
American Society for Engineering Education
Associated Schools of Construction
College Board
College Entrance Examination Board
College Scholarship Service Assembly
Council for Advancement and Support of Education
National Academic Advising Association
National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance
US Green Building Council
Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges and Universities
Wisconsin Health Information Exchange
Degree Programs
MSOE is dedicated to preparing graduates for productive and successful careers. Programs of study provide students with ample opportunities to progress in accordance with their individual abilities and professional goals. MSOE offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, noncredit courses and seminars, on-site and online educational offerings, and a variety of services that meet the needs of both full-time and part-time students, business and industry.
Students in a baccalaureate-level curriculum are encouraged to follow a carefully planned course progression track. These tracks, as well as program details, can be found in the “
Academic Departments, Undergraduate Degree Programs, Minors and Certificates
” portion of this catalog. MSOE offers the following degree programs. The undergraduate programs are described fully in this catalog.
Bachelor’s Degrees
Actuarial Science
Architectural Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
BioMolecular Engineering
Business Management
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Construction Management
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering Technology*
Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Information Technology Systems
International Business
Management Information Systems
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Technology*
Nursing
Operations Research
Software Engineering
Technical Communication
*This program is no longer accepting students.
Master’s Degrees
Architectural Engineering
Civil Engineering
Engineering
Engineering Management
Marketing and Export Management
MBA
MBA in Education Leadership
MBA in STEM Leadership
Medical Informatics (offered jointly with Medical College of Wisconsin)*
New Product Management
Nursing
Perfusion
Structural Engineering*
*This program is no longer accepting students.
MSOE also offers several double-major, dual-degree and study-abroad programs.
University Scholars Program
The University Scholars Program (USP) is MSOE’s honors curriculum. The benefits of participating in the program include having classes with like-minded students, greater opportunities to pursue individual interests, integration of diverse topics and more in-depth preparation for graduate school. Also, University Scholar students will participate in settings that will hone their leadership skills through project work, professional presentations and interaction with regional leaders in various fields. The USP encourages independent, collaborative and cooperative learning. The program is currently open only to students who meet the enrollment criteria. For more information call (414) 277-7363.
Study Abroad
Cultural and Educational Opportunities
MSOE’s study-abroad programs are once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to experience another culture in depth while taking college-level courses toward your degree. MSOE encourages its students to consider the opportunity these programs offer. Certain academic requirements are applicable - see program director for details.
Leaders in business and engineering today need a global perspective. For the future, we expect many employees will be required to have work experience abroad, some foreign language fluency and be expected to understand the challenges that come with doing business in multiple markets. The MSOE graduate should prepare for this future by considering our study-abroad programs.
Germany
Electrical engineering
,
mechanical engineering
or
international business
students may spend their junior year at the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, in Lübeck, Germany. Founded in 1808, the university is similar to MSOE in that it is an applications-oriented institution. Situated near the Baltic Sea, the beautiful city of Lübeck is a center of commerce, industry and higher education, and offers a variety of recreational opportunities to young people. Much of its Middle Ages appearance is still intact in the older portion of town, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The MSOE program consists of two semesters at Lübeck, with extensive breaks to travel throughout Europe.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Participation does not delay progress toward graduation since all course work taken is integrated into the curricula of each MSOE program.
Upon graduation, students will receive two degrees, one from MSOE and another from Lübeck University of Applied Sciences.
In 2009, the International Exchange Program in Electrical Engineering at MSOE received the Innovative Program Award from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Heads Association (ECEDHA).
Czech Republic
Students may study for a semester at one of the oldest and most respected technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. Founded in 1707, CTU consists of six schools and seven institutes with some 16,000 students enrolled in engineering courses. Prague’s famed diversity of architectural styles, the distinctive bridges arching the Vltava River and narrow, winding cobbled streets make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities. The city is the social and cultural center of Central Europe with an entrepreneurial energy coursing through its streets.
Key Features
Instruction is in English.
Students have access to CTU course work beyond their selected major. In consultation with their academic advisor, students are thus able to select the number of credits taken at CTU that will transfer for academic credit toward their MSOE degree. (Taking classes that will not transfer to a student’s major may delay his or her progress toward a degree.)
France
Students who participate in this study-abroad program will spend the month of June in Lille, France studying at Lille Catholic University. The program is open to all majors, and all courses are taught in English. Students can experience European culture while satisfying six credits (two classes) of humanities and/or engineering electives.
India
MSOE has established relationships with Manipal University in India and other universities and programs around the world. Students interested in studying in Manipal or other off shore institutions should discuss the possibility with their academic advisor or Dr. Charles S. Tritt,
tritt@msoe.edu
.
Italy
Rader School of Business students now have the opportunity to study abroad at Florence University of the Arts in Florence, Italy. Students have a wide variety of elective courses to choose from, including sports management/marketing, intercultural communication, international banking, sustainability and much more. The program is currently designed to run for two MSOE academic quarters (either Fall/Winter or Winter/Spring). In Italy, students will take five classes during one semester and then two classes during the January intercession.
Key Features
All courses are taught in English
Students work with their program director/advisor to select courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
Students will have the opportunity to take international courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Print this Page
Facebook this Page (opens a new window)
Tweet this Page (opens a new window)
All
catalogs
© 2026 Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Powered by
Modern Campus Catalog™
.