School Year Typical Program Offerings | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
K-12 STEM at MSOE
K-12 Programs
Programs for Families
School Year Typical Program Offerings
School Year Typical Program Offerings
Explore the types of programs offering at the STEM Center.
To view current and past program offerings,
visit our Eventbrite page
.
The STEM Center hosts programs for educators, students and families throughout the year. To receive notifications for new programs, registration windows, and other opportunities, sign up for the mailing list in the sidebar. Newsletters include additional programs run by community partners at the STEM Center.
Below are examples of the types of programs we run in the STEM Center annually. Note that program offerings change from year to year and below programs are provided as an example of the types of experiences students can expect to see at the STEM Center.   Fall program offerings are typically released in two waves in late August and late September. Spring program offerings are typically released in late January and early February.
Competitive Robotics Teams (Grades 7 – 12)
We offer a number of competitive robotics teams for students to join – no experience required! These teams all include skill development in coding, mechanical build and design, marketing, business, and leadership. To learn more about the different teams, their practice schedule, and the different levels of competition available,
visit the robotics teams webpage
.
Coding Clubs (Grades 5 – 12)
Coding clubs run in two sessions annually – a fall/winter session and a spring session – and provide weekly coding opportunities for any student in grades 5 – 12. Each year both beginner and intermediate coding options are available in a variety of languages along with both co-ed and girl focused clubs. Clubs meet one evening per week at the STEM Center. Technology is provided on site for any students who need it. Fall coding clubs typically run October – January and spring coding clubs typically run March – May. Past languages include block-based coding such as Scratch and scripted coding including Python and JavaScript.
Pop-Up Programs (All Grades)
Throughout the year, ad hoc programming opportunities are offered for a variety of ages and in different topics. These opportunities are broadcasted through our mailing list and examples include:
Candy chemistry
Homeschool pop-up series
Spring break pop-up programs
High school programs with MSOE academic programs
STEM Program Updates
Sign up to receive updates on all K-12 programs at MSOE.
Sign up for email updates.
STEM Programming
1444 N. Water St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7238
stem@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo