Be a Game Changer: Computer science powered by AI | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Be a Game Changer: Computer science powered by AI
Be a Game Changer: Computer science powered by AI
Introducing MSOE's new Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Computer science is one of the fastest growing, highest paying professions with impacts in virtually every corner of society. Graduates of MSOE’s
computer science program
will be prepared to write cutting-edge software to solve tomorrow’s problems with a special emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence. Whether its smartphones, automobiles, advanced manufacturing, or big data, emerging developments in computer science and artificial intelligence enable breakthrough innovations for the challenging problems of our time. MSOE computer science students will learn on the leading edge of this technological revolution, developing skills to solve problems using algorithms, applied mathematics, and artificial intelligence in a hands-on environment working on real problems with faculty who have industry experience.
What is AI?
Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be used to turn vast amounts of information into insight, and it’s changing the way data is gathered and analyzed. Virtually every industry from transportation to law to manufacturing has either realized AI impacts or will in the near future. GPU-accelerated AI systems are enabling new applications for natural disasters, keeping first responders out of harm’s way and saving lives. Health care professionals are using AI to examine data and develop preventative medicine revolutionizing how medical research is conducted. AI is fueling advancements in robotics and unprecedented automotive innovation. The integration of AI into daily life has accelerated and is projected to grow for the foreseeable future.
1 / 4
AI is changing our lives in many ways, ways in which we may have never even considered or imagined. I am AI, powered by NVIDIA deep learning and brilliant minds everywhere. (Video approved for use by NVIDIA.)
2 / 4
Holodeck. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
3 / 4
Mars 2030. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
4 / 4
AI used in cars. The 2013 Audi A3 Interior. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
MSOE computer science students will have the privilege of learning in the
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
. Students will have access to a GPU-powered supercomputer and other hardware from NVIDIA, the global leader in artificial intelligence, supercomputing and visual computing. Purpose built AI, big data visualization, and robotics labs will facilitate collaborative problem-solving to tackle real-world challenges using big data, algorithms and hardware in concert. Corporate partnerships between industry and students in dedicated spaces throughout the building will advance experiential learning opportunities. The building was made possible through a $34 million gift from
MSOE Regent and alumnus Dwight ’90
and Dian Diercks.
Diercks Hall by the Numbers:
16,500 square-feet of data-rich laboratories
11,500 square-feet of interactive classrooms
3,500 square-feet of collaboration and event space
256-seat auditorium
State-of-the-art NVIDIA GPU-powered AI supercomputer
Careers
Some career choices of CS graduates include:
Big data engineer
Data architect
Software architect
Information security analyst
Machine learning engineer
Web developer
Software Engineer
Software Business Analyst
Recent Employers
Amazon
Direct Supply
Google
Johnson Controls Inc.
Microsoft
NVIDIA
Graduate Schools
Carnegie Mellon University
George Washington University
Marquette Law School
Washington State University
Students
02.06.2019
Cyber defense skills earn MSOE students trip to regional competition
MSOE’s Cyber Raiders Organization for Networking (CRON) defeated teams from around the state in the Wisconsin Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition, sponsored…
Read More
Academics
01.30.2018
MSOE launches new Computer Science degree
Milwaukee School of Engineering will offer a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science beginning in Fall 2018, and students are invited to apply now. The…
Read More
Faculty & Staff
01.30.2018
Dr. Derek Riley named computer science program director at MSOE
Derek Riley, Ph.D. has been named program director of the new Bachelor of Science in Computer Science program at Milwaukee School of Engineering. Riley…
Read More
Apply to MSOE
The first step on your BS in Computer Science journey starts here!
Apply Now
Derek Riley, Ph.D.
Program Director
riley@msoe.edu
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
Curious about the CS Program?
Not quite ready to apply, but would like more information about our new BS in Computer Science program? We can help with that.
Request more info
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo