Terms of Service | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
Terms of Service
Terms of Service
Welcome to Milwaukee School of Engineering’s (MSOE) websites! We have a number of websites filled with information, and on certain sites, you are able to participate in activities, including, but not limited to interacting and chatting with other users, MSOE faculty and staff members; posting comments and asking questions; playing games; applying to MSOE and submitting supporting documentation; registering for classes or events; paying tuition and other fees. MSOE websites provide services to you, subject to the following Terms of Service (“TOS”), which may be updated at any time by us without notice to you.
By using and/or visiting any of our websites, you agree to all of the terms of service noted on this page; our
Privacy Policy
; and any additional terms or rules that may be posted in conjunction with games or contests.
Milwaukee School of Engineering reserves the right in its sole discretion to deny access to all or part of any of our websites. We also reserve the right to make changes to our websites, any features on the sites, and the TOS.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise, any new features that augment or enhance the current websites, including the release of new properties, shall be subject to the TOS. You understand and agree that MSOE’s websites are provided “AS-IS” and that MSOE assumes no responsibility for the timeliness, deletion, mis-delivery or failure to store any user communications or personalization settings.
In order to use some features of our websites, you need to create an account. When you create an account, you agree to provide correct and complete information and keep that information accurate and up-to-date. If you provide false information, incomplete information, or information that is not current, MSOE has the right to suspend or terminate your account. Impersonating another person on MSOE’s websites is prohibited.
You also agree to keep your account log-in and password secure. You are entirely responsible for the activity that occurs on your account and agree to notify MSOE if you believe there has been unauthorized use of your account. MSOE cannot and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your failure to comply with this.
Registration and certain other information about you are subject to our Privacy Policy. We respect your information and privacy. You agree that MSOE is not responsible for any of your personal information that you post publicly using our various services.
Everything on our websites, including but not limited to text, graphics, logos, images, audio and video content, is owned by us and/or our affiliates or our suppliers and we retain the copyright to this content. You agree to not use the content without our permission. To obtain permission, please contact the Marketing Department at (414) 277-7135. Additionally, use, reproduction or storage of the name, address or other information about any individual identified within our websites is strictly prohibited and constitutes misappropriation of corporate property.
You agree that all information, text, graphics, logos, images, audio and video content, messages or other materials that are posted publicly or privately by yourself or another user are the sole responsibility of the person from which such content originated. This means that you, and not MSOE, are entirely responsible for all content that you upload, post, email or otherwise transmit on our websites. MSOE does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity or quality of such content. Under no circumstance will MSOE be liable in any way for any content, including, but not limited to for any errors or omissions in any content, or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of the use of our websites or content posted, emailed or otherwise transmitted on them.
MSOE has the right (but not the obligation) in our sole discretion to refuse or remove any content that is available on our websites. You may not upload or share anything on our websites that you do not have a right to use and share on the Internet. By uploading and sharing any content on our websites, you represent and warrant that you are the original author or creator of the content and/or have full copyright, title and interest in and to any content; have the full power and authority to upload and/or share the content on our websites; understand and agree that any element of the content will not violate or infringe upon the trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, rights or privacy or publicity or any other personal or proprietary rights of any person or entity, and will not defame or libel and person or entity; you will not harm minors in any way; you will not publish falsehoods or misrepresentations that could damage MSOE or any third party; you will not submit material that is obscene, threatening, pornographic, harassing, hateful, racially or ethnically offensive, or encourages conduct that would be considered a criminal offense, give rise to civil liability, violate any law, or is otherwise inappropriate; you will not disseminate advertisements or solicitations of business, or otherwise engage in commercial activity on our websites; you will not impersonate, stalk, bully, or harass another person; you will not solicit any user for material gain; and you will not produce spam throughout the websites.
You will still own the content that you post, upload or otherwise make available on our websites (assuming you have the rights to own it), but you are giving MSOE the right to use your content. You grant us and our affiliated entities the right to use that content in any way we want in any medium without getting your permission or having to pay you for it. By providing content on our websites, you give us and our affiliates a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive right and full sub-licensable license to use, copy, reproduce, distribute, publish, publicly perform, publicly display, modify, adapt, translate, archive, store and create derivative works from your content in any form, format or medium of any kind now known or later developed. You also grant us the right to use any material, information, ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in any communication you provide or otherwise submit to us for any purpose whatsoever.
MSOE does not promise the accuracy, integrity or quality of content generated by our website users and do not endorse it in any manner. We cannot and do not monitor or manage all content. Our websites contain links to third-party sites, and also allow users to provide links to third-party websites. We do not have control over those websites, and assume no responsibility for the content, accuracy, usefulness, safety, privacy policies or practices of any third-party websites. By using our websites, you expressly relieve us and our affiliates of any and all liability arising from your use of any third-party websites linked to our websites.
MSOE makes no warranties or representations about the accuracy or completeness of our websites, and assumes to the maximum extent permitted by law no liability or responsibility for any errors, mistakes, or inaccuracies on the websites; personal injury or property damage, of any nature whatsoever, resulting from your access to and use of the websites; unauthorized access to or use of our secure servers and/or any and all personal information that is not submitted using a secured transmission; interruption or the cessation of transmission to or from our websites; bugs, viruses, trojan horses, or the like, which may be transmitted to or through our websites by any third-party; and/or errors or omissions on our websites or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of your use of any content posted, emailed, transmitted, or otherwise made available via the websites.
You agree that MSOE makes no warranty that its websites will meet your requirements; the websites will be uninterrupted, timely, secure or error-free; the results that may be obtained from the use of the service will be accurate or reliable; the quality of any products, services, information or other material purchased or obtained by you through our websites will meet your expectations; and any errors in the websites will be corrected. Any material downloaded or otherwise obtained on our websites is done at your own discretion and risk and that you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system or loss of data that results from the download of any such material.
MSOE reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, our websites (or any part thereof) with or without notice. You agree that MSOE shall not be liable to you or to any third party for any modification, suspension or discontinuance of our websites.
Under the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of 13. If information is disclosed in your profile or submissions that can identify you as a child under the age of 13, we reserve the right to delete, edit or reject such information, your entire profile or your submission.
You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless MSOE, its affiliates, officers and directors, employees and any other parties with whom we may contract to provide our services, from and against any and all claims, actions, suits, costs, liabilities, judgments, obligations, losses, penalties, fines or forfeitures, expenses or damages (including without limitation, reasonable legal fees and expenses) of whatsoever kind and nature imposed on, incurred by or asserted against MSOE arising out of any breach or alleged breach by you of any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation pursuant to these Terms of Service or the failure to fulfill any obligations relating to your account incurred by you or any other person using your account. We reserve the right to take over the exclusive defense of any claim for which we are entitled to indemnification under this section. In such event, you shall provide us with such cooperation as is reasonably requested by us.
FERPA
MSOE also complies with the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
, which generally prohibits the release of student education records without student permission. However, FERPA does permit the release of public or “directory” information about students. By becoming members of MSOE’s online communities, students give their consent for their directory information to be shared.
Any record that contains personally identifiable information that is directly related to a students in an educational record under FERPA. Student rights related to those records include:
The right to access educational records kept by the school
The right to demand educational records be disclosed only with student consent
The right to amend educational records
The right to file complaints against the school for disclosing educational records in violation of FERPA.
Parents are legally owners of these rights until a student reaches 18. Parents should not share this type of information on the MSOE website or its respective online communities. All personally identifiable information shall be removed from discussions and direct messages.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo