Careers at MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Careers at MSOE
Careers at MSOE
Feeling welcomed and appreciated, committing to collaboration and celebrating our differences are just a few of the key aspects that comprise MSOE’s unique culture, making us extraordinary together.
MSOE is located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, known for its numerous festivals, beautiful lakefront, ethnic restaurants and cultural activities. In addition to being in a great location, MSOE offers a very competitive compensation package, including paid time off, and 13 paid staff holidays per year. MSOE also offers the following voluntary benefits:
Very competitive insurance and compensation package including medical, dental, vision, disability, and life insurance.
403(b) retirement plan with company matching of up to 6% of employee salary and immediate vesting.
Education reimbursement for employees.
Tuition remission for dependents and spouses of full-time employees.
Flexible spending accounts.
On-site fitness center (free for employees to use!).
Various wellness programs such as on-site flu shots, cholesterol screenings, and more.
All of our available faculty and staff positions are listed below. Come join our team!
1 / 6
Dr. DeAnna Leitzke, Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management department chair, shares why the value of collaboration is at the top of her list at MSOE.
2 / 6
Kip Kussman, Dean of Students, explains the value of excellence at MSOE.
3 / 6
Inclusion is a key value at MSOE, and Robin Gates, MBA, MSN, RN and Nursing faculty, explains why.
4 / 6
Gul Afshan, professor of BioMolecular Engineering at MSOE, shares how MSOE brings the value of innovation to its students.
5 / 6
Kelly Reuter, executive administrative assistant, details her experience with the value of integrity at MSOE.
6 / 6
Steve Williams, VP of Campus Infrastructure, talks about the value of stewardship and the responsibilities of MSOE.
Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) maintains its long standing as an Equal Opportunity Employer and Educator. Therefore it is the policy of MSOE to provide equal employment opportunity to all individuals regardless of their race, ethnicity, color, creed, religion, sex, age, national origin, physical or mental disability, military and veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic characteristics, marital status or any other characteristic protected by local, state or federal law.  This policy applies to all jobs at the University and to all the terms, benefits, privileges and conditions of employment/enrollment.
Employees and applicants with disabilities are encouraged to inform Human Resources if they need a reasonable accommodation to perform a job for which they are otherwise qualified. MSOE makes, and will continue to make, reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified applicant or employee to promote the employment of qualified individuals with disabilities and disabled veterans, unless such accommodations would impose an undue hardship on the operations of the University’s business. MSOE also makes reasonable accommodations for sincerely held religious beliefs.
Please note, we do not accept emailed/mailed/faxed applications.
To be considered for one of our open positions, please complete our online application as it corresponds to the appropriate open position as listed below.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Important Health Coverage Tax Documents
The 2025 Form 1095Cs are prepared and available upon request. The Form 1095C provides information about offers of coverage made to employees as well as coverage information for those who enrolled in MSOE's group health plan. To request a copy of your Form 1095C or for further information about Form 1095C, you can contact the
Human Resources
office at:
1025 N Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Tel:
414-277-7132
Email:
benefits@msoe.edu
Transparency in Coverage Rule
Through UnitedHealthcare, UMR creates and publishes Machine-Readable Files on behalf of MSOE. To link to the Machine-Readable Files, please visit
transparency-in-coverage.uhc.com
. Files will be updated monthly in accordance with the requirements.  As a reminder, these MRFs are not the member-friendly consumer price transparency tool that will be available in 2023 and 2024. For more information, continue to refer to the
Transparency In Coverage FAQs
which are updated frequently.
Faculty Jobs
At MSOE
MSOE faculty are industry leaders, experts in their fields, and above all, dedicated to their students.
Staff Jobs
At MSOE
From 13 paid staff holidays per year to educational assistance, there are many reasons to work for MSOE.
Student Employment
MSOE students have options. From Office Assistants to Lab Technicians, there's an on-campus job that's right for you.
More Information
Human Resources Department
Campus Center
1025 N. Broadway
337
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7132
hr@msoe.edu
f. 414-277-2233
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo