Rising Raiders Scholars Program | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Campus Inclusion
Rising Raiders Scholars Program
Rising Raiders Scholars Program
The Rising Raiders Scholars Program provides credit bearing opportunities for rising sophomores to entering college freshmen. The program is designed to provide access to STEM programs for students, to improve the success of all MSOE students, eliminate gaps and increase retention. The goal of the Rising Raiders Scholars Program is to enroll ten freshmen annually to MSOE, and to graduate 40 students by 2031.
Enrollment Criteria
In order to be eligible for the Rising Raiders Scholars Program, students must:
Demonstrate a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 or higher.
Be enrolled in a Milwaukee County High School.
Participants in community partnership organizations such as Future Urban Leaders, Milwaukee Fellows, and the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Milwaukee are also eligible to participate.
Program Model
Rising Raiders Scholars Program is a four-year cohort-based program focused on academic exploration, academic success, math preparation skills and MSOE’s Eight Dimensions of Wellness.
Population
Program Highlights
Rising Sophomores
Attend week-long “Explore the Possibilities Program”
Rising Juniors
Attend week-long “Focus Summer Program”
Enroll in RSC 0101: “Foundations of Student Success” – 1 credit earned
Alumni mentor engagement
Rising Seniors
Attend week-long “Focus Summer Program”
Enroll in RSC 0103: “Perspective, Potential and Purpose” – 1 credit earned
Alumni mentor engagement
Corporate mentor engagement
Rising Raiders
Rising first-year students entering MSOE will participate in their respective academic path to prepare for the academic year, an introductory course in their major and IDS 2020.
Carter Academy
Math JumpStart (all students)
Potential for enrolling in an introductory course in the student’s major – 3 credits earned
IDS 2020 Career Development – 1 credit earned
Alumni mentor engagement
Engage with student organizations such as National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Society of Women Engineers (SWE), or Kappa Sigma Mu multicultural sorority
Are you ready to become a Rising Raider and kickstart your journey at MSOE? Apply today for the Rising Raider Scholars Program!
Edith Hernandez
Coordinator Of Campus Inclusion Cohort Programs
(414) 277-2775
hernandeze@msoe.edu
Rising Raiders Summer Program FAQs
Have questions about the Rising Raiders summer program? We have answers.
Review Rising Raiders FAQs
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo