Rising Raiders Summer Program FAQs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Campus Inclusion
Rising Raiders Scholars Program
Rising Raiders Summer Program FAQs
Rising Raiders Summer Program FAQs
What time is check in and checkout?
You should check in between 3-5 p.m. on the Sunday of the program. Special arrangements can be made for late or early check-in if necessary. Please
contact us
if you need to make any special accommodations.
Focus and Explore Camps will conclude on Friday around 1 p.m. Special arrangements can be made for late checkout if necessary.
What is a typical day like?
We’ll keep you busy from breakfast through fun activities in the evening hours. Below is a general schedule for each day of camp.
Sunday
3-5 p.m.: Check-in and room assignments
5 p.m.: Mandatory floor meeting (participants only)
5:30 p.m.: Dinner and welcome activities (participants only)
11 p.m.: Lights out
Monday - Thursday
7:30 a.m.: Breakfast
8:30 a.m.: Academic programming
12 p.m.: Lunch
1 p.m.: Academic programming
Sunday
6 p.m.: Dinner
7 p.m.: Evening activity
11 p.m.: Lights out
Friday
7:30 a.m.: Breakfast
8:30 a.m.: Academic programming
Saturday
9:30 a.m.: Brunch with guests
12 p.m.: Check-out
What if I am arriving via air, train or bus?
MSOE will provide ground transportation from General Mitchell Airport and the Milwaukee Intermodal station at no extra cost. Also, if you need to arrive a day early and/or stay a day late due to travel arrangements, you may stay in the residence halls an additional day at no extra cost. A travel form will be provided in the final confirmation packet so we can be made aware of your travel plans. Obtain confirmation of registration prior to making any travel plans.
Can I bring a vehicle to campus?
Yes, however, the vehicle must remain parked the remainder of the program. Participants are not allowed off campus unless previous arrangements have been made. There is no additional cost for parking.
Do I have to stay overnight?
This is a resident overnight camp and we encourage full participation in the program. Under special circumstances, exceptions may be made for commuters.
Will I have a roommate?
Roommate policy is subject to change. Ordinarily, there are 2 campers per room and we can accommodate roommate requests. If there is an uneven number of participants, someone may end up in a single room.
Are the residence halls air-conditioned?
Students attending summer programs will stay in our newly renovated Viets Tower residence hall. The common areas and individual rooms are air-conditioned.
Are the classrooms air-conditioned?
Yes, all classrooms and common spaces are air-conditioned.
How do I register and pay?
You may register online. Please note that there is no payment because full scholarships are awarded.
What happens after I register?
You will receive a receipt in the email you entered during registration and payment. The next confirmation will come when we send the forms that need to be filled out. We will send them via email in early June. An example of what the forms look like can be found here. If you want confirmation prior to the start of June, feel free to contact us.
What is the refund policy?
We understand that sometimes family plans change, so refunds for summer programs are available if you contact MSOE before June 1. After this date, arrangements of food, lodging, and academic/extracurricular programs will have been set and a refund cannot be issued.
Edith Hernandez
Coordinator of Campus Inclusion Cohort Programs
(414) 277-2775
hernandeze@msoe.edu
Apply to become a Rising Raider!
Are you ready to become a Rising Raider and kickstart your journey at MSOE? Apply today for the Rising Raider Scholars Program!
Apply now
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo