Student Employment Application Process | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Careers at MSOE
Student Employment
Student Employment Application Process
Application Process
View the current job openings.
You can view the current job postings to search for the job(s) you are interested in.
Determine if you are eligible for Federal Work-Study (only applies to academic year employment).
To be eligible for Federal Work-Study you must have filed a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and have federally determined financial need. If you qualify for Work-Study it will be listed on your financial aid award offer. You may contact the Financial Aid department at 414-277-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
for more information on Federal Work-Study.
Complete a Student Employment Application.
When you find a job you are interested in, click on the position title to view the position description, and submit your online application.
Interview for the position(s) you are interested in.
After submitting the application, the hiring supervisor may contact you to set up an interview. You may wish to contact the supervisor as well to follow up on your application. The supervisor's name and contact information will be listed with the job posting.
Complete hiring paperwork.
After you are hired you must complete a Student Employment Contract. A new Student Employment Contract is required each summer term and each academic year. This must be signed by yourself and your supervisor. Once the contract is complete, bring it to the Human Resource office. All students who have not worked for the university prior will need to complete the following required payroll forms: I-9 (Employment Eligibility and Verification), 2020 W4 (Federal withholdings), WT-4 (Wisconsin withholdings) and Direct Deposit. Forms are available to fill out in the Human Resources office and must be completed prior to starting employment with the university.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo