Lake Country School wins NFPA Fluid Power Challenge at MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
K-12 STEM at MSOE
K-12 Programs
NFPA Fluid Power Challenge
Lake Country School wins NFPA Fluid Power Challenge at MSOE
Lake Country School wins NFPA Fluid Power Challenge at MSOE
Nov. 15, 2016 – Students from
Lake Country School
in Hartland, Wisconsin, scored well at the NFPA Fluid Power Challenge. Team C was named the
2016 Overall Winner
of the event, and Team E was the
2016 Portfolio Winner.
Both teams were coached by Fred Levenhagen.
The competition is designed to get middle school students excited about fluid power and on Nov. 7, 41 teams competed at MSOE. There were four students on each team, and they worked hard to design and build fluid power mechanisms that pick an object from one platform, rotate and place it on another. In addition to the number of pick-and-place cycles a school’s machine completed, a review of each team’s design approach, teamwork and portfolio was used in the final evaluation.
Team B from
Pilgrim Park Middle School
(Elm Grove, Wisconsin) received the
2016 Teamwork Award
. Bret Fredrickson was their coach.
Team B from
The
REAL School
(Racine, Wisconsin) was the
2016 Team Challenge Winner
and Blair Kath was their coach.
Wisconsin Hills Middle School
(Brookfield, Wisconsin) won the
2016 Design Award
and they were coached by Mark Oelstrom.
The NFPA Fluid Power Challenge introduced students to the world of engineering and fluid power during an on-campus workshop in October where they built a pneumatic lifter. During the Challenge, they returned to campus to apply their knowledge and compete against other teams and gain more hands-on experience while building a fluid power mechanism with real world applicability.
Through the Challenges, the National Fluid Power Association (NFPA) hopes to encourage students to select more mathematics and science courses in their high school curricula to keep their options open for technology-based post-secondary studies. The program is sponsored by Enerpac, FORCE America, Grimstad, GS Global Resources, HUSCO International, Poclain Hydraulics, Price Engineering, Rexroth Bosch Group, Ritter Technology LLC, Sun Hydraulics, Thomas Magnete, TTP an API Heat Transfer Company, Webtec and ZF Industries.
NFPA provides a forum for the fluid power industry’s channel partners—manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, customers and educators. Its 335+ U.S. and multinational members work cooperatively in advancing hydraulic and pneumatic technology through the association’s many programs and initiatives.
Milwaukee School of Engineering is an independent, non-profit university with about 2,900 students that was founded in 1903. MSOE offers bachelor’s and master’s degrees in engineering, business and nursing. The university has a national academic reputation; longstanding ties to business and industry; dedicated professors with real-world experience; a 96% placement rate; and the highest ROI and average starting salaries of any Wisconsin university according to PayScale Inc. MSOE graduates are well-rounded, technologically experienced and highly productive professionals and leaders.
1 / 5
Overall Winner – Lake Country School Team C
2 / 5
Team Challenge Winner – The REAL School Team B
3 / 5
Portfolio Winner – Lake Country School Team E
4 / 5
Design Award – Wisconsin Hills Middle School
5 / 5
Teamwork Award – Pilgrim Park Middle School Team B
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo