Advocacy, Allyship & Activism | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Advocacy, Allyship & Activism
Advocacy, Allyship & Activism
Student organizations, support services and campus-wide events offer fair and inclusive opportunities for everyone to find their place on campus and in the community.
Every member of the MSOE campus community deserves to feel supported, valued and included. To achieve this, MSOE is dedicated to ensuring just practices are in place throughout campus and students receive the support they need to succeed. With more than 100 student organizations, there’s a place for everyone to find their niche and feel a sense of belonging. Student support services—such as the Raider Center for Academic Success and Wellness Services—provide students with the resources they need to achieve academic and non-academic success.
The council is dedicated to ensuring inclusion and belonging are central to all campus initiatives.
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Wisconsin
Brew City Catholic
LGBT Milwaukee
Hillel Milwaukee Community Center
Hispanic Professionals of Greater Milwaukee (HPGM)
International Institute of Wisconsin
Islamic Resource Center
Kinship Community Food Center
Milwaukee Metro Cru
The Milwaukee Urban League
Milwaukee Women’s Center
National Center for Women in Technology
Organization of Chinese Americans (OCA)
Shambhala Meditation Center of Milwaukee
Urban Indian Health Institute
Organizations at MSOE that represent diverse interest groups across campus.
Get the academic and non-academic support you need to achieve greatness.
Multicultural events, heritage celebrations, training, education and more!
Seandra Mitchell
VP of Student Affairs & Campus Inclusion
mitchell@msoe.edu
Katie Toske
Director of Multicultural Affairs
toske@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo