University Leaders | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
MSOE Leadership
University Leaders
University Leaders
MSOE’s leadership team is committed to advancing the academic mission and strategic vision of the university. The Executive Leadership Team serves as an advisory board for the president and plays an integral role in directing the duties of his/her department in fulfillment of the university’s mission and successful implementation of MSOE’s strategic plan.
Daniel J. Bergen, Ph.D.
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF STAFF
In his role as vice president and chief of staff, Dr. Dan Bergen works closely with President Eric Baumgartner, Ph.D. Bergen oversees the daily operations of the Office of the President ensuring efficiency, productivity and alignment with MSOE’s strategic goals. He oversees institutional research, data analysis, and continuous improvement initiatives to support data-informed decision-making across the university. Bergen also oversees human resources and guides the design and implementation of faculty and staff talent development programs that align with MSOE's culture and strategic direction. He leads the university’s strategic planning process—facilitating planning sessions, coordinating implementation and monitoring progress toward institutional priorities. Bergen has extensive experience in higher education, including as the executive director of community engagement within Marquette University’s Office of Economic Engagement, as interim assistant vice president of student affairs and as assistant director for university apartments and off-campus student services at Marquette. He holds a Ph.D. in English-British Literature from Marquette University, an M.A. in English-Cultural Studies from Kansas State University, and a B.A. in Journalism-Advertising from the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire.
Alicia Domack, Ph.D.
INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT OF ACADEMICS
Dr. Alicia Domack is the interim vice president of academics and has served as a professor and chair of the Humanities, Social Science and Communication Department at MSOE. Domack joined MSOE in 2009 and was drawn to MSOE by the caliber of students, the urban environment and the exciting opportunities for collaboration. Her research interests range from the science of teaching and learning to the psychology of place. During her tenure as HSC department chair, she worked with faculty to launch the UX program, support new minors in psychology and Spanish, expand the University Scholars Honors program, and led multiple committees and task force groups associated with MSOE's Strategic Plan. She has served as MSOE’s HLC accreditation liaison officer, and IRB Director. Originally from Omaha, Nebraska, Domack holds a B.S. in Psychology from the University of Wisconsin, Madison; an M.A. in School Psychology from the University of Nebraska, Omaha; and a Ph.D. in Educational Psychology from the University of Nebraska, Lincoln.
Paul Matson, CPA
VICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND CFO
Paul Matson is MSOE’s vice president of finance and CFO and is responsible for the financial integrity of the university. He works in close partnership with university leaders to plan and implement strategic objectives while developing a sustainable financial model. He provides executive level direction and management oversight for financial planning, budget and budget analysis, accounting and business operations, finance controls and reporting, financial aid strategy, treasury management and investments, risk management and insurance, capital planning, purchasing and contracts, and regulatory compliance and operations. Matson serves as the assistant secretary of the MSOE Board of Regents and as staff officer for the Audit & Finance and Investment Committees. He is an established leader in finance and accounting, having previously served as the CFO and controller for several manufacturing, distribution and service organizations with global reach and revenues ranging from start-up to $600 million. He has experience at privately held and Fortune 500 companies as well as non-profit organizations.
Kristen Mekemson
VICE PRESIDENT OF UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT
Kristen Mekemson serves as vice president of university advancement at MSOE, bringing more than two decades of experience in philanthropy, fundraising and strategic leadership. In her role, she leads MSOE’s fundraising strategy, partners closely with campus leaders, and advances philanthropic engagement to support students, faculty and key institutional priorities. She is responsible for strengthening donor relationships, expanding alumni and corporate engagement, and ensuring the success of Next Bold Step: MSOE’s Campaign to Accelerate Innovation, the university’s first comprehensive campaign. Mekemson joined MSOE from the Greater Milwaukee Foundation, where she served as vice president of development and philanthropic services. Previously, she held leadership roles in philanthropy at Lawrence University, the University of Wisconsin–Whitewater and the Kern Family Foundation. Mekemson holds both a Master of Arts in British and American Literature and a Bachelor of Arts in French and Writing‑Intensive English from Marquette University.
Seandra Mitchell
VICE PRESIDENT OF STUDENT AFFAIRS AND CAMPUS INCLUSION
Seandra Mitchell is vice president of student affairs and campus inclusion. She provides leadership and direction to lead and strengthen student affairs activity on our campus. Mitchell oversees the Office of the Dean of Students, campus life, multicultural affairs and the Raider Center for Academic Success. She plays a key role in developing and implementing training programs to raise awareness of individuals' unique backgrounds and respect for MSOE faculty, staff and students, and provides guidance to MSOE student organizations to further strengthen their climate of inclusion. Mitchell also works collaboratively with the university’s CREATE Institute to strengthen the MSOE Mindset among our graduates and engages with other Milwaukee organizations that can positively impact campus climate. She previously served as MSOE’s Dean of Admissions. Mitchell holds a B.A. in Journalism and Mass Communications from UW-Whitewater and a master’s degree in higher education administration from Georgetown University.
Sebastian Thachenkary
VICE PRESIDENT OF MARKETING AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Sebastian Thachenkary directs the university’s brand and marketing strategy including web, social media, print, video, digital, and media relations. He oversees the Marketing Communications Department, the Grohmann Museum and WMSE 91.7FM, the university’s independent, non-profit and listener-supported radio station. His marketing experience spans several industries and includes corporate communications, public relations, integrated brand and marketing strategy, web and digital communications, business development, corporate sponsorships and strategic partnerships. In 2018, Thachenkary was one of the
Milwaukee Business Journal’s
Chief Marketing Officers of the Year
. Prior to joining MSOE, he served as director of marketing communications for Alverno College, vice president of marketing communications for Johnson Financial Group and brand manager and marketing director for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. He holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.
Tim Valley, Ph.D.
VICE PRESIDENT OF STUDENT SERVICES AND ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT
As vice president of student services and enrollment management,  Dr. Tim Valley sets the strategic direction for enrollment management at MSOE including traditional, international, transfer and graduate students. Valley also oversees all aspects of MSOE’s NCAA division III athletics programs, spanning more than 20 collegiate sports. He also directs the functions that support a holistic approach to education through Student Life. Valley holds a B.S. in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, an M.S. in Higher Education Administration from Iowa State University and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Educational Leadership from Cardinal Stritch University.
Stephen Williams, Ph.D.
VICE PRESIDENT OF CAMPUS INFRASTRUCTURE
Dr. Steve Williams, P.E. is vice president of campus infrastructure and ensures the university’s physical spaces are designed to capture the power and flexibility offered by modern digital tools. In his role, he oversees MSOE’s Information Technology Department as well as the Environmental Health and Safety, Facilities and Custodial Departments. Online and virtual tools continue to become a larger component of how universities educate and operate, and Williams will set the direction for implementing next generation technology to support MSOE’s educational methods. Williams joined the faculty at MSOE in 2002 and served as the electrical engineering program director before being promoted to chair of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department. Williams earned his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from University of Missouri-Columbia. He is a Licensed Professional Engineer in Wisconsin.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo