Accessibility | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
Accessibility
Accessibility
This page is a central resource regarding accessibility at MSOE.
MSOE is committed to making its campus and the resources within accessible to all. We welcome all students, faculty, staff and visitors with disabilities and are dedicated to ensuring that the MSOE campus is an accessible, welcoming working and learning environment for individuals with disabilities, including compliance with federal and state regulations.
For Students:
Student Accessibility Services
Student Accessibility Services is committed to making MSOE academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions and mental health conditions. For students seeking accessibility, Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides reasonable accommodations in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and Sections 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as well as state and local regulations.
For additional information, visit the website in the link above, or contact Angela Moureau, Assistant Director of Accessibility & Advocacy at (414) 277-7281 or
moureau@msoe.edu
.
For Faculty, Staff and Student Employees:
Human Resources Department
Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) maintains its long standing as an Equal Opportunity Employer and Educator.  Therefore it is the policy of MSOE to provide equal employment opportunity to all individuals regardless of their race, ethnicity, color, creed, religion, sex, age, national origin, physical or mental disability, military and veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic characteristics, marital status or any other characteristic protected by local, state or federal law.  This policy applies to all jobs at the University and to all the terms, benefits, privileges and conditions of employment/enrollment.
Employees and applicants with disabilities and disabled veterans are encouraged to inform Human Resources if they need a reasonable accommodation to perform a job for which they are otherwise qualified. MSOE makes, and will continue to make, reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified applicant or employee to promote the employment of qualified individuals with disabilities and disabled veterans, unless such accommodations would impose an undue hardship on the operations of the University’s business. MSOE also makes reasonable accommodations for sincerely held religious beliefs.
For Visitors and Campus Events:
MSOE makes every effort to ensure that activities and events across the campus are safe and accessible for everyone to enjoy. To report an accessibility concern regarding a campus activity or event, please contact the sponsoring department.
For specific contact information, please refer to our
campus directory.
For the safety of MSOE’s community, the
Public Safety Department
operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with on-campus patrols conducted by foot, bicycle and car.
Information Technology (IT) Accessibility and Policies
MSOE’s websites offer many resources and communication options to connect with members of our faculty, staff and student organizations. To keep you informed of our policies, direct links to our
Terms of Service
,
Privacy Policy
and
Information Technology Department
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo