Martin Luther King Jr. Day | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Get involved in the community on Martin Luther King Jr. Day!
In honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Milwaukee has a variety of celebratory and volunteer events across the community.
40th annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday Celebration in Milwaukee/ Marcus Performing Arts Center/ Jan. 15/ 4 p.m.
Marcus Performing Arts Center will hold its annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday Celebration which will highlight community youth who every year interpret King's words through art, speech and writing contests. The winners will be showcased at this free celebration and the theme is "What Affects One … Affects All."
Learn more
27th Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration in Milwaukee/ Potawatomi Hotel & Casino/ Jan. 15/ 8 to 9:30 a.m.
Organized by the YMCA of Metropolitan Milwaukee, the 27th Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration is where people can honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and recognize the local nonprofit organizations that serve others. There will be speakers and performances of all kinds.
Learn more
Dare to Dream: A painting workshop in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr./ 9175 N. 76th St./ Jan. 16/ 4 to 7 p.m.
Join a celebration of Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy through the power of art. Fashion Art Teen Empowerment, a youth and performing arts group is hosting this event where youth and artists can use their imagination to paint a canvas inspired by the dream of a world where everyone is united in harmony and respect. This workshop encourages artistic expression while honoring the profound impact of MLK Jr.'s words and actions. The program is open to anyone ages 8 and up.
Learn more
23rd Annual MLK Justice Program and March/ St. Francis of Assisi Church/ Jan. 15/ 1 p.m. (program); 2:30 p.m.
The Dr. Martin Luther King Justice Coalition will recognize and honor three organizations—Milwaukee Jewish Voice for Peace, Milwaukee Muslim Women's Coalition, and UWM and MU Students for Palestine—for their efforts in promoting nonviolent peace in Palestine/Israel. The event will also include reflections from individuals who had personal connections with Dr. King, and feature performances by musicians and an actor interpreting Dr. King's words. A brief march to Dr. King's statue on King Drive will follow, providing participants with an opportunity to reflect on Dr. King's impactful work.
Learn more
Milwaukee VA Medical Center MLK Day Observance/ Milwaukee VA Medical Center Chapel/ Jan. 15/ 11:30 a.m.
As part of their Martin Luther King Jr. observances, the Milwaukee VA Medical Center’s employees will share their personal expressions on the role Dr. King played in their lives. Refreshments will be served.
Learn more
MLK Week: Clean and Spruce Volunteer Opportunity/ Multiple locations in the 53212 area/ Jan. 15 to Jan. 19/ 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Join 5 Points Neighborhood Association's MLK Day of Service! Volunteer to clean and spruce up homes for seniors, veterans, and individuals with disabilities. Tasks include garbage removal and leaf raking. Your help makes a difference and leaves a positive impact on the community.
More information
and
Register here
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Observance Event/ 1840 N. Prospect Ave./ Jan. 16/ 3 p.m.
For the D. Martin Luther King Jr. observance event, there will be a program and a reception. Gina Green-Harris will be the keynote speaker followed by a performance of The Amazing Grace Chorus.
Learn more
Martin Luther King Jr. service projects in Whitefish Bay/ Bay Shore Lutheran Church/ Jan. 15/ 10 a.m.
At Bay Shore Lutheran Church in Whitefish Bay, there will be a variety of service projects that include assembling sandwiches for people who are homeless throughout the Milwaukee area, assembling personal care kits for homeless individuals, writing thank you letters for veterans at Clement J. Zablocki Veterans Medical Center, creating and distributing Valentine's Day cards to individuals staying at the Crisis Resource Center and collecting mittens and hats for people who are homeless.
Learn more
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. family-friendly morning of learning and service in Fox Point/ Congregation Shalom/ Jan. 15/ 10 to 11:30 a.m.
This family-friendly morning of learning and service will feature story time, music, movement, and various on-site service projects. The service projects will include packing on-the-go winter hygiene kits and on-the-go breakfast bags for neighbors struggling with housing issues.
Learn more
Martin Luther King Jr. Day in Waukesha/ Waukesha Public Library/ Jan. 15/ 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
At the Waukesha Public Library, there will be family-friendly activities, while supplies last, with the themes of peace and unity to honor Martin Luther King Jr.
Learn more
Note: Some of the events listed above require registration. Please check the links for additional information before attending.
In the words of our community
Martin Luther King Jr. once said,
“Life’s most persistent and urgent question is, ‘What are you doing for others?’”
We asked members of MSOE's community the same question, and this is what they said:
Through my involvement on campus, I am supportive and encouraging to others.
—
Tramyqua Allen
, Architectural Engineering student, National Society of Black Engineers President
As an educator, I strive to empower students and see their success as an asset and a vehicle of change for their communities.
—
Luis A. Rodriguez, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department
As servant-leaders, we should think more deeply about what and
how
we do for others. Our goal is not
only
to be of service, but to deeply understand those we serve and how they want to be served
.
—
Natalie Villegas ’12
, Associate Director of Experiential Learning, CREATE Institute
I mentor future construction leaders.
—
Samantha Wallace ’15
, Superintendent, Clark Construction Group, LLC
As a servant-leader, I am dedicated to serving others with integrity and humility while encouraging excellence and growth in our MSOE community.
—
John Y. Walz, Ph.D.
, President, MSOE
Just as MSOE invested in me, I’m committed to investing my time, expertise, and energy to help the next generation of MSOE students.
—
Dr. Dwight Diercks ’90
, MSOE Regent, Senior Vice President, NVIDIA
Seandra Mitchell
VP of Student Affairs & Campus Inclusion
mitchell@msoe.edu
Katie Toske
Director of Multicultural Affairs
toske@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo