Cohort Scholars | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Campus Inclusion
Cohort Scholars
Cohort Scholars
Cohort Scholars participate in a seminar course and engaging events both on and off campus, focusing on academic resiliency, career exploration, community engagement, and leadership development. They also receive dedicated mentorship and guidance to support their academic, personal, and professional growth.
Cohort Scholar Seminar Course
In year one and two, scholars are placed in a seminar course with their peers in the program. This one-credit course aims to establish a community of support and camaraderie and connect students to important resources at MSOE to help ensure success, retention, and personal and academic growth. Guest Speakers are brought for networking, such as GE Healthcare and the Milwaukee Bucks.
Student Engagement
To further develop community and build essential skills, students attend various social and professional events on and off-campus such as:
Tuesday Tea
Culture Uncovered
Mesa de Español
MSOE Alumni Panel
MSOE Career Fair
Industry tours
Study nights
Student Support
Cohort Scholars regularly meet with their Success Coaches, who provide guidance and support for their academic, personal, and professional growth. Success Coaches are dedicated staff members from the Office of Campus Inclusion, committed to helping students thrive at MSOE.
The Cohort Scholar group is made up of participants in some of the following programs:
Community Partners
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME)
Summer bridge program that focuses on Physics, Calculus, MATLAB, and Engineering Design.
Min. GPA Required: 2.8*
Application Deadline: Senior Year of High School (June)
All-in-Milwaukee (AIM)
Helps scholars build vital bridges—improving our students' outcomes and changing our city's narrative.
Min. GPA Required: 2.5*
Application Deadline: Senior Year of High School (Spring)
MSOE Programs
Carter Academy
Provides freshmen engineering students with a premier bridge program and supportive living-learning community to enhance their academic success.
Min. GPA Required: 2.0*
Application Deadline: Senior Year of High School (April)
Rising Raiders
Rising Raiders Scholars Program is a four-year cohort-based program focused on academic exploration, academic success, math preparation skills and MSOE’s Eight Dimensions of Wellness.
Senior Design Scholars
Admitted high school seniors get to participate on an MSOE senior design team and work on a real collegiate project.
Min. GPA Required: 2.25*
Application Deadline: Senior Year of High School (January)
Honors Program
Focuses on scholarship and engagement for some of our highest-achieving undergraduates.
Min. GPA Required: 3.7*
Application Deadline: Senior Year of High School (February)
Partner Schools
Carmen (Northwest, South, Southeast)
Cristo Rey Jesuit High School Milwaukee
Milwaukee Academy of Science
Nicolet High School
Pius XI High School
Riverside University High School
Ronald Reagan High School
Rufus King High School
Saint Augustine Prep Academy
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo