NFPA Fluid Power Challenge | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
K-12 STEM at MSOE
K-12 Programs
NFPA Fluid Power Challenge
NFPA Fluid Power Challenge
Middle school teachers are invited to bring their students to learn about and compete in fluid power with the MSOE Fluid Power Institute team and the National Fluid Power Association (NFPA).
Overview
Through the
Fluid Power Challenge
, NFPA and MSOE hope to encourage students to select more mathematics and science courses in their high school curricula and to keep their options open for technology-based post-secondary studies.
The Fluid Power Challenge consists of a
Workshop Day
and a
Challenge Day
held in April and May, respectively.
Workshop Day
During the Workshop Day, the teams learn about fluid power by building a pneumatic lifter and develop the skills they will need for the competition. At the end of the Workshop Day, they take their kits, including tools and supplies, back to school. Over the next few weeks, the teams work on the Challenge scenario and design, develop a portfolio, and build and test a prototype for their fluid power mechanisms.
Check-in begins at 9 a.m. and the day ends by 12:30 p.m.
Challenge Day
The teams come together again on Challenge Day. They use the same tools and an identical kit of supplies to recreate their unique mechanisms, which they use in the competition to pick up weighted objects, and place them on a platform. Teams are graded in a number of areas, including total points, portfolio ideas, design and teamwork.
Check-in begins at 9 a.m. and the day ends by 1:00 p.m.
Location
MSOE Kern Center (1245 N. Broadway, Milwaukee, WI)
Workshop Date
April 14th, 2026
Challenge Date
May 12th, 2026
Registration
Preregistration will open in January of 2026. Official registration will open in February 2026.
Join our mailing list (see sidebar) or e-mail
stem@msoe.edu
to receive updates on the fluid power challenge.
NFPA provides $500 grants  to organizations that are participating in the fluid power challenge. It covers costs including transportation to and from MSOE, supplies, and other items you may need for your team(s).
Learn more here.
What You'll Need
A team, or multiple teams, of four students
A desire to learn about hydraulics and pneumatics
2019 Fluid Power Challenge at MSOE
STEM Program Updates
Sign up to receive updates on all K-12 programs at MSOE.
Sign up for email updates.
STEM Programming
(414) 277-7238
stem@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo