Multicultural Affairs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Multicultural Affairs
Multicultural Affairs
MSOE is committed to celebrating our unique backgrounds and promoting inclusion across our campus.
MSOE provides students, faculty and staff an opportunity to meet people from around the U.S. and world. Learning about individuals who represent different groups can add significantly and positively to your MSOE experience. This is one of the benefits of being a member of the Raider family. Our community brings unique gifts and talents including cultures, worldviews, perspectives, opinions, and values and beliefs that will affirm your values as well as challenge them.
At MSOE we all have something to share and something to learn. From student organizations to special events and programs, we promote and celebrate varied backgrounds and identities of every individual.
About the Office
Located in the Campus Center (CC359), the Office of Multicultural Affairs
helps students find and participate in short and long-term
global opportunities
supports
international students
at MSOE studying on F1 student visas
hosts
multicultural events
to celebrate cultures from around the globe
Our Multicultural Ambassadors
Meet the students who work in the Office of Multicultural Affairs!
Anuoluwa Adebayo
is an undergraduate studying nursing at Milwaukee school of engineering. She is an international student from Lagos, Nigeria who is passionate about care for people and ways to improve communication in the healthcare fields and on campus. She is the president of the international student association at MSOE. Anu is proficient in English, can speak a little bit of French but is beginning to lose it due to the lack of speaking it as much, she speaks and writes Yoruba, which is one of the languages in Nigeria, she also speaks a little Korean and is learning to improve her speech, and how to write and read. Her hobbies include listening to music like kpop, afrobeats and so on, watching Kdrama’s, and other Asian shows.
Iyanuoluwa Adebayo
is an undergraduate studying Operations and Systems Management at the Milwaukee School of Engineering. Originally from Lagos, Nigeria, she is an international student passionate about fostering community and connection on campus. She serves as the Event Coordinator for the International Student Association, Secretary of the Project Management Club, and is a member of NSBE. Iyanu is proficient in English and Yoruba, with a basic understanding of French. Her hobbies include singing, cooking, dancing, and meeting new people.
Nana Ama Boakye
, an undergraduate studying Biomedical Engineering at the Milwaukee School of Engineering, hails from Accra, Ghana, and is an international student. With her own experiences studying abroad, she empathizes with the intricate struggles that many international students face and is passionate about helping others overcome these issues. Nana Ama is proficient in English, Twi, and has a basic understanding of French. Her hobbies include reading, watching animated media of all kinds, and learning new things.
Parnika Settipalli
is a first-year undergraduate international student at the Milwaukee School of Engineering, pursuing a degree in Computer Science with minors in Cybersecurity and Mathematics. She brings a global perspective to campus life and enjoys engaging with diverse communities. Parnika is an active member of MSOE’s AI Club, where she explores emerging technologies and collaborative learning. She is fluent in English and Telugu, with a foundational knowledge of Hindi. Outside the classroom, she enjoys singing, experimenting in the kitchen, sketching and creating handmade crafts, connecting with new people, watching action-packed films, and expressing herself through novel writing and personal journaling.
Zinia Tasnim
is an undergraduate student studying Biomedical Engineering at the Milwaukee School of Engineering.
She has a passion for helping others and is interested in pursuing a career in healthcare technology management. Originally from Bangladesh, she is excited to be a Multicultural Ambassador on campus because she loves connecting with others and building a fun and engaging community. She is also fluent in Bangla and English. In her free time, she enjoys hanging out with friends, watching horror movies, and trying out new food.
Join us in celebrating diverse cultures and traditions.
Find everything you need to succeed at MSOE and in Milwaukee.
MSOE offers opportunities to study in a variety of locations – including Europe, Asia and Central America – that will combine academic theory with real world practice in an intercultural context while continuing to prepare you in your course of study.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo