Multicultural Events | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Multicultural Events
Multicultural Events
Join the celebrations!
Throughout the year, MSOE holds a variety of multicultural events that celebrate cultures from around the globe. These events and celebrations help us learn about new cultures, share new experiences and gain a better understanding of the diverse backgrounds that make up our campus community.
Regular Events
Each term, there are a handful of multicultural events that the MSOE community has come to enjoy.
Culture Uncovered
is a monthly dive into the diverse cultures that make up the fabric of the MSOE community. Each month, international students are interviewed by WMSE to explore their culture through music. Students also host a Q&A with food and trivia to share their culture.
Tuesday Tea
invites the MSOE community to take a break, connect with others, and learn about tea/coffee culture from around the world. Tuesday tea occurs in the Multicultural Lounge on even Tuesdays in the term.
La Mesa de Español
is a weekly gathering of students to practice their Spanish in an informal setting. Spanish games and snacks are enjoyed.
Heritage and History Month Celebrations
MSOE celebrates heritage and history months with a diverse array of events and activities aimed at honoring and educating students about different cultures and historical milestones. From guest speakers and workshops to cultural performances and themed meals, MSOE embraces the opportunity to foster understanding and appreciation for the rich tapestry of backgrounds within our community.
Traditions
MSOE offers a variety of multicultural events that students, staff, faculty, and the community look forward to each year. Some of them are:
The Multicultural Meetup
The Student Diversity Retreat
MSOE's Winter Market
Lunar New Year
Ramadan Iftar
Multicultural Graduation Celebrations
Visit the
Event Calendar
to see the upcoming multicultural events.
1 / 9
Multicultural student orgs meeting new MSOE students at the Multicultural Meetup.
2 / 9
Biweekly Tuesday Tea in the Multicultural Lounge.
3 / 9
Students learning about the Philippines as a part of our regular Culture Uncovered series.
4 / 9
Our annual SafeZone training with the LGBT Center of Milwaukee.
5 / 9
Students at our annual Lunar New Year celebration.
6 / 9
Giving out flowers and chocolate for International Women's Day.
7 / 9
Student receiving a Serape stole in honor of their Hispanic heritage at the Éxito ceremony, one of our multicultural graduation celebrations.
8 / 9
African drummers performing at the Bestowing of the Kente celebration.
9 / 9
Graduating students with global backgrounds at our Multicultural Graduation Celebration.
Seandra Mitchell
VP of Student Affairs & Campus Inclusion
mitchell@msoe.edu
Katie Toske
Director of Multicultural Affairs
toske@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo