About MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
About MSOE
Milwaukee School of Engineering is a private, non-profit university offering bachelor’s and master’s degrees in engineering, business, computer science, and nursing. At MSOE, you will find a caring community of students and faculty. Together, we are committed to fostering a higher standard of academic programming and research, and personalized service, instruction, and guidance.
Why Choose MSOE?
Students get real-world experience in top-ranked programs, from expert faculty. At graduation, you’ll be prepared to enter some of the most in-demand careers. In fact, in 2024-25, 96% of our graduates got the job or into the graduate school of their choice.
Discover More →
It’s all about where we came from.
Since our founding in 1903, MSOE’s students, faculty, curriculum, and history have continued to evolve. Leaders of business and industry cooperated in the institution’s development, and a close relationship was established that has continued throughout MSOE’s history.
Find Out Who We Are →
There's never a dull moment on campus.
There’s always something happening on campus. From Tuesday Tea to St. Pat's Week, special events throughout the year offer opportunities to learn about new cultures, celebrate achievements and connect with others. And with more than 100 student clubs and orgs, there's a place for everyone to find their fit. Stay on top of news and events and join the conversation!
See What's Happening in Our Newsroom →
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Grohmann Museum
See the world’s most comprehensive collection dedicated to the evolution of human work.
Explore the Museum
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo