STEM on Site FAQs and Policies | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
K-12 STEM at MSOE
K-12 Programs
STEM on Site
STEM on Site FAQs and Policies
STEM on Site Program Policies and FAQ's
We're here to help prepare you for a great visit to the STEM Center! Review the policies and FAQ's below for important information to prepare for your visit. Still have questions? Contact us at
stem@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7238.
Ready to book? Visit the
reservations page
to schedule your visit to the STEM Center!
When is STEM on Site available? Who can attend?
This program is available Monday – Friday between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. from September through May. This program does not run during afterschool, evening, summer or weekend hours. This program is only available at the MSOE campus.
Any group wishing to bring students in grades 1 through 12 is welcome to participate. You must have a minimum of 15 participants and we cannot teach more than 2 to 3 consecutive grade levels at once.
First grade classrooms are encouraged to visit in the second semester of the school year as we have a limited number of activities that are appropriate for new first graders in the fall.
How much is this program? Do you offer scholarships?
STEM on Site visits are $8 per student per activity. Schools are permitted to book up to 2 back to back activities for students in grades 5 and up.
If your school is over 50% economically disadvantaged per your most recent Wisconsin DPI scorecard, STEM on Site program participation fees for up to 100 students may be waived. For choice schools, we use the “all students” report card. If transportation is a barrier, please let us know when you request your program and bussing reimbursement may be available.
For schools receiving free programming, you still must finalize your student numbers at least seven business days prior to your visit date. An $8 per student fee for each missing student will be imposed for schools arriving with 9 or more missing students from your confirmed total.
How many students may I bring?
STEM on Site programs are designed to be collaborative, team based experiences. A minimum of 15 students are required. If you are a smaller school, programs can be run for a group of 2 to 3 consecutive grade levels to help you achieve the minimum number of students. For a single group, we can accommodate up to 40 students for most activities.
For groups larger than 40, please reach out to
stem@msoe.edu
to explore potential options. You must finalize the number of students attending at least seven business days prior to your visit date. Refunds are not offered if fewer students are present on the day of your program.
Payment Deadline & Policies
Full payment is due before your program begins. MSOE reserves the right to decline programming to groups who arrive without payment in hand or being received prior to the program start time. Payment can be made via check or our online payment portal. Instructions for payment will be included on your program confirmation. Be sure to allow time for the mailing and receipt of payment before your visit, as applicable.
Cancellation, Reschedule & Late Arrival Policies
Should you need to cancel or reschedule your visit, you must do so at least seven business days prior to your scheduled date. Cancellations or rescheduling requests made after the seven-day deadline will receive no refunds or credits towards a rescheduled visit.
Cancellations due to unforeseen circumstances, such as weather related school closures, will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If your group is going to arrive later than your scheduled time, contact the STEM Department as soon as possible at (414)277-7238. All scheduled programs begin at the time stated on your program confirmation.
MSOE reserves the right to cancel your program without refund for a late arrival, even due to issues with bussing. Refunds are not issued for no show groups or for students absent on the visit date.
STEM Center Code of Conduct
Please be sure all members of your group, including educators and chaperones, are aware of the following:
All individuals should treat fellow participants, staff, and the MSOE campus with respect. Foul language, bullying and inappropriate behavior will not be tolerated.  Any individual causing intentional damage to campus will be held financially responsible and be removed from the program.
Participants must remain with the group and in designated areas during the program
All individuals should keep electronic devices silent and in pockets or bag.  Educators and adult chaperones are welcome to take photos and videos as permitted by your school or organizations policies. Video recordings or photos of MSOE staff or students are not permitted without permission from those individuals.
No food or beverages (except sealed water bottles) should be brought into the STEM Center. If your group wishes to have lunch at MSOE, please notify the STEM department.
Adults should be with the group at all times.
MSOE reserves the sole and absolute right to remove anyone from the University, temporarily or permanently, for behaviors deemed by staff to be inappropriate for the safety, well-being, and positive environment for participants. STEM on Site programs are designed to be fun and informative experiences. Groups that fail to listen to instructors or otherwise choose not to participate in a meaningful, productive manner may be dismissed from the Center. If a participant and/or entire group is removed from the Center, they will not receive a refund and may be prohibited from booking future visits with MSOE.
Teacher & Chaperone Responsibilities
Chaperones and educators with your group are expected to ensure all participants abide by the code of conduct for the STEM Center. They are also responsible for the supervision and behavior of participants. Chaperones are expected to be active in assisting students with their STEM Center experience, which may include helping students with their activities for the day.
Learning Accommodations
All programs are assigned instructional staff members at roughly a 1:10 ratio. As a result, if there are special learning needs in your group, we ask that you notify us as soon as possible. We may follow up with additional questions to help ensure a great experience for all students. We cannot provide 1:1 assistance to students for the entire duration of a program and recommend groups ensure they have enough chaperones to provide appropriate instructional support as needed.
Lunch Policies
The STEM Center does not have a lunch space available. Groups who would like to have lunch on campus are welcome to eat in the MSOE Dining Commons located 3 blocks from the Center. On nice days, the grassy area outside of the Center is also available for use.
Our staff can give your chaperones directions to the Dining Commons space, but we cannot escort you to the building. This is the central dining hall for campus and tables cannot be reserved.  All behavior and chaperone policies for STEM on Site programs extend to use of the Dining Commons.
STEM Programming
1444 N. Water St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7238
stem@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo