Commencement FAQs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Commencement
Commencement FAQs
Commencement FAQs
Are tickets required for Commencement?
No tickets are required for commencement. Graduates are allowed to bring up to 10 guests (more than 10 guests will need approval). The fall ceremony will be held on Saturday, December 20, 2025 and the spring ceremony will be held Saturday, May 16, 2026.
I have not been contacted, am I graduating?
All correspondence is e-mailed to the address you list on your Graduation Application. Contact the Office of Academics if you have not been contacted about the ceremony by the eighth week of the semester in which you are graduating.
Where can I order my invitations and announcements? How can I get more?
Customized invitations, announcements or name cards may be ordered via
Jostens
.
How much does my family have to pay to park on campus for graduation?
Good news! Free, no time limit parking will be available in the
MSOE Viets Field parking structure
.
How long is the ceremony?
The general timeline is one hour from start to finish. Spring Commencement usually runs 20 to 30 minutes longer.
Is there handicapped seating and service for the hearing impaired?
Handicapped seating will be available on the main floor for Fall commencement. Spring semester handicapped seating will be available on the mezzanine level behind section C of the ice arena. If there is a special need for the hearing impaired, contact the Office of Academics.
Is there reserved seating?
There are no reserved seats, except for the graduates and special commencement guests. Public seating is on a first come, first served basis.
Who qualifies for honor cords?
In order to receive an honor you must be an undergraduate student and have a cumulative GPA of 3.2. Master’s candidates do not get honor cords, as graduate hoods denote the honor automatically.
When will I get my diploma?
Diplomas are sent to you after graduation and all academic requirements and payment of any monies owed to MSOE have been completed.
How can I purchase a photo from commencement?
Two snapshots of all graduates accepting their diplomas will be taken by Gradtrak Graduation Images, which also provides a
pre-registration system on their website
for graduates and families to view proofs and place an order.
NOTE:
When visiting the Gradtrak website type "Milwaukee School of Engineering" in the school/organization search box.
Will I need a gown, cap, etc.?
Commencement regalia is paid for by the university. Your regalia includes a keepsake cap, gown, and if applicable, a masters hood. These items will be distributed from the
MSOE Raider Shop (Campus Center, 1st Floor)
during regular operating hours one week before graduation.
Who can I call if I have more questions?
Contact the Office of Academics at (414) 277-7190.
Watch live during the event or come back to this page to view the completed recordings.
Obtaining Photos and Videos
Directions & Parking
Lodging & Accommodations
Office of Academics
CC420
(414) 277-7190
rome@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo