Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention
MSOE is committed to providing a positive and healthy environment for students and employees.
As citizens, members of the MSOE community are subject to the rules of accountability imposed by federal, state and local laws. The criminal penalties may include fines, restitution, imprisonment, loss of driving privileges and other sanctions. Students and employees of MSOE assume the obligation to conduct themselves in a manner compatible with the school’s function as an educational institution. Accordingly, under-age or other unlawful use of, possession of, or distribution of beverage alcohol or illegal drugs on campus or at any college-sponsored function will result in appropriate disciplinary action and/or sanction.
Student Rights and Responsibilities
Students failing to comply with the above obligations or who violate MSOE policies related to the above will be subject to sanctions prescribed by the MSOE Student Conduct Code over and above penalties resulting from their violation of current laws. Sanctions prescribed by the Student Conduct Code include: reprimand, fines, restitution, disciplinary probation, compensatory service, termination of on-campus residency, suspension, and/or expulsion from the institution.
Likewise, it is important for students to understand the many health risks associated with the use of illicit drugs and alcohol. Those risks include but are not limited to: addiction, violent flashbacks, permanent damage to the brain and central nervous system, liver damage, heart disease, and potentially fatal overdose or withdrawal.
Employee Responsibilities
Employees who violate MSOE’s rules related to use and/or abuse could result in disciplinary actions which could include termination of employment or they may be required to participate in counseling assistance.
It is important for employees as well to understand the many health risks associated with the use of illicit drugs and alcohol. Those risks include but are not limited to: addiction, violent flashbacks, permanent damage to the brain and central nervous system, liver damage, heart disease, and potentially fatal overdose or withdrawal.
Resources
Early identification of substance abuse is important in the rehabilitation process. Numerous agencies, programs, and treatment and rehabilitation facilities are located in the Milwaukee area. In addition, any member of the MSOE community may call or contact the campus office below for help or information:
MSOE Counseling Services
Kern Center, Room K-230
(414) 277-7590
MSOE’s Counseling Services Office promotes alcohol and drug free living at various times as part of their Health, Development and Wellness programs and seminars during the school year. Attendance at these sessions is free of charge
MSOE provides an
Employee Assistance Program
(EAP) made available to employees and their families as a resource for personal problems at no cost and on a strictly confidential basis. The provider of this service, The Lincoln Financial Group, can be contacted at (888) 628-4824.
In addition to the above information, MSOE has a “
Campus Alcohol Policy
” which is published in pamphlet form and made available to all employees and students in various ways and in offices and other locations on campus. MSOE also has sections in its “
Student Handbook
” related to matters that assist students in making appropriate choices and decisions regarding prevention of drug and alcohol abuse. MSOE addresses its Drug-free Workplace Statement in its “
Employee Handbook.
” The Statement is communicated to all employees on an annual basis. All of these documents can be found on the school’s Intranet which is accessible by all students and employees.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo