Council for Community & Belonging | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Inclusion & Belonging
Council for Community & Belonging
Council for Community & Belonging
The Council for Community & Belonging includes members from departments across campus. The council is dedicated to ensuring inclusion and belonging are central to all campus initiatives. Regardless of the identities, affiliations, and interests of a council member, all council members are available to ensure that all students and employees feel welcome at MSOE.
Council Mission
The Faculty & Staff Council for Community and Belonging serve as the voices of action, advocacy and support for MSOE faculty, staff, and students.  The council defines annual goals to build community and create a sense of belonging for all stakeholders. The goals align with the MSOE Strategic Plan, Extraordinary Together, as well as the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) Plan.
Core Advisory Group
The Core Advisory Group is comprised of employees who are chartered to capture the pulse of the campus community, and to address the challenges and opportunities that impact a sense of belonging.  Members of the group represent the voices of academics, Enrollment Management, human resources, marketing and student affairs and auxiliary services.
Responsibilities:
Use best practices to evaluate and address the need to remain compliant as a university
Support the initiatives of the council’s working groups to ensure that they are aligned with mission, vision, values, and strategic plans of the university
Plan an annual retreat for the council
Determine topics for the Ambassador Professional Development Programs
Preferred Name
Job Title
Department
Kip Kussman
Dean of Students
Dean of Students Office
Kristen Landaal
Assistant Director of Campus Life
Campus Life
Seandra Mitchell
Vice President of Student Affairs and Campus Inclusion
Student Affairs
Leah Newman
Program Director/Associate Professor Industrial Engineering Program, Mechanical Engineering Department
Mechanical Engineering
Annette Pirrung
Assistant Director of Communication
Marketing Communications
Katie Toske
Director of Multicultural Affairs & Campus Inclusion
Multicultural Affairs
Davinci Wallace
Coordinator of Athletic Recruitment/Assistant Women's Basketball Coach/Admissions Counselor
Admissions
Mitzi Dobersek
Associate Professor
Civil & Architectural Engineering & Construction Management
Working Groups
Group members are faculty at staff at MSOE who have completed the Ambassador Professional Development Program. The group has three areas of focus: Community and Outreach, Employees Voices and Advocacy, and Student Support and Advocacy.  Working group members represent the voices of academics, Enrollment Management, human resources, information technology, marketing and student affairs.
Responsibilities:
Collaborate with the Core Advisory Group to determine annual goals and initiatives of the full council
Work with team leads to implement and complete the goals and initiatives determined by the full council
Provide monthly updates on the status of the goals of the working groups and make recommendations to address barriers
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo