MSOE President Emeritus John Walz | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
MSOE Leadership
MSOE President Emeritus John Walz
President Emeritus John Y. Walz, Ph.D.
Dr. John Walz is President Emeritus of MSOE.
Dr. Walz served as the fifth president in MSOE’s 122-year history, from 2016 through 2025. On Jan. 1, 2026 he transitioned into his new role as President Emeritus, where his efforts are focused on fundraising and external outreach to support the university’s Next Bold Step campaign and long-term strategic priorities.
The Impact of Dr. John Walz
The impact of Walz’s leadership can be seen across campus in new construction, programs, and developments that enhanced academics and student life, supported MSOE’s mission to offer hands-on learning experiences, and strengthened community partnerships and more.
One of Walz’s first projects at MSOE was the implementation of a
strategic plan
. Walz and MSOE began supporting those commitments with the creation of a new degree, construction of campus advancements, improvements to student life with dorm and dining enhancements, and so much more.
Walz was instrumental in the creation of the
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
degree with a focus on artificial intelligence at MSOE, joining Carnegie Mellon as one of the first two universities in the nation to offer such an undergraduate degree. In order to support the technology forward degree and advance other academic programs, Walz worked with alumnus Dwight Diercks to develop the
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
. The hall opened in September 2019 and is filled with next generation technologies that position MSOE at the forefront of artificial intelligence education.
Additional renovations across MSOE’s campus have been made under Walz’s leadership, including the creation of the
Spitzer Dining Commons
and the Welcome Center, the transformation of Roy W. Johnson Residence Hall into
Hermann Viets Tower
(a living-learning community) and Regents Residence Hall into
Mellowes Hall
, the development of the University Terrace, the expansion of the
Ruehlow Nursing Complex
, the creation of the
We Energies STEM Center at MSOE
, the development of
Raiders Stadium
in partnership with Nicolet High School, construction of
Raiders Field
on campus, the acquisition of a building adjacent to campus, on Knapp Street, for future development, and the acquisition and renovation of the building which now houses the
Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music
.
1 / 6
Dr. Walz's Last Lecture
2 / 6
Mayor of Milwaukee Cavalier Johnson proclaimed Dec. 5, 2025 as Dr. John Walz Day in Milwaukee.
3 / 6
Dr. Walz gives his Last Lecture at the NVIDIA Auditorium in Diercks Hall.
4 / 6
The Impact of Dr. John Walz and his Presidency.
5 / 6
Campus Highlights from Dr. John Walz's Presidency
6 / 6
Dr. Walz participates in a ceremonial puck drop at the women's hockey game Dec. 5.
In March 2025 Walz announced the university’s largest comprehensive campaign to date, the
Next Bold Step: MSOE’s Campaign to Accelerate Innovation
. This $125 million fundraising campaign includes the $76.5 million
Robert D. Kern Engineering Innovation Center
, which is set to break ground in July and be completed by fall 2027, the
Dwight and Dian Diercks School of Advanced Computing
, student scholarships, faculty support, student support, operational support and general excellence.
1 / 11
Campus Highlights from Dr. John Walz’s Presidency
2 / 11
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
3 / 11
Robert Spitzer Dining Commons
4 / 11
Hermann Viets Tower
5 / 11
Mellowes Hall
6 / 11
Ruehlow Nursing Complex Expansion
7 / 11
We Energies STEM Center at MSOE
8 / 11
University Terrace
9 / 11
Raiders Stadium
10 / 11
Raiders Field
11 / 11
Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music
The Impact of Dr. John Walz and his Presidency at MSOE
Outside of campus, Walz is an active board member for the Clinical and Translational Science Institute, Wisconsin Technology Council, Wisconsin Policy Forum and Higher Education Regional Alliance, and is a member of the NCAA Division III Presidents Council. He also participates in Northern Athletics Collegiate Conference, Association of Independent Technological Universities, National Association of Independent Colleges, Wisconsin Association of Independent Colleges, and Rotary of Milwaukee.
Walz earned a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Tulane University. After six years as a process support engineer for Shell Oil Company, he left to pursue a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. He received his Ph.D. in 1992 and returned to Tulane as an assistant professor. In 1997, Walz joined Yale University’s faculty as an associate professor of chemical engineering and in 2002 he became the department’s chairman. In 2005 he became professor and head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Virginia Tech and in 2012 Walz became dean of the College of Engineering at the University of Kentucky.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo