Privacy Policy | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
Milwaukee School of Engineering is committed to respecting your privacy as a customer. Our privacy policy is clear: MSOE will not sell, exchange or otherwise distribute your personally identifiable information without your consent, except to the extent required by law.
Information Collected Automatically
MSOE Web servers generate logs that may contain information about computers or devices used to access the university website, or about general activity on the university website, such as the following:
Internet address of computer or device
type of browser or other client application used
the operating system and screen resolution of the computer or device
Web pages requested
referring Web pages
time spent on the site
We do not associate IP addresses to individuals. As such, visitor sessions will be tracked, but visitors will remain anonymous. Our use of tracking technologies allows us to analyze trends and statistics to improve our website and your Web experience.
Information Provided Voluntarily
Milwaukee School of Engineering does not require you to provide personal information to visit our website; however, you may choose to provide us with personal information through an email message, form, survey or other electronic means. This information is used only to fulfill the stated purpose of your communication and/or participation. Requests for information will be directed to the appropriate staff to respond to the request, and may be recorded to help us improve our site to better respond to similar requests.
raidershop.msoe.edu
MSOE’s online Raider Shop is hosted by MBS, an outside company. Be advised that a separate privacy policy currently governs end-user visits and participation.
FERPA
MSOE also complies with the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
, which generally prohibits the release of student education records without student permission. However, FERPA does permit the release of public or “directory” information about students.
External Links
The Milwaukee School of Engineering website contains links to sites outside the msoe.edu domain. The university is not responsible for the privacy practices of these websites.
– Security Statement –
Encryption Technology
MSOE utilizes industry standard SSL (Secure Socket Layer) encryption (registered with Equifax Secure Certificate Authority to Milwaukee School of Engineering) when accepting your credit card information during online e-commerce checkout, when accepting your online admission application, and in certain other instances where personal information is requested. SSL encryption is a method by which information transmitted across the Internet is encoded to defeat theft by anyone who should intercept the data before it reaches its destination. Web pages where SSL encryption is activated are typically identified by a lock or key symbol displayed in your browser.
MSOE employees may access nonpublic personal information in relation to their job functions and the services they provide to you.
Security Precautions You Should Take
Although every effort is made to secure network communications, MSOE cannot ensure the privacy of online communications. All users are strongly advised to utilize web browsers with 128-bit encryption features for the most secure transmission of personal and financial data to MSOE’s secure server. Individuals using online services should also take steps to protect personal information, such as closing the web browser when finished using the site. Failure to do so may result in personal information being viewed by someone else using the same computer.
– Notice of Disclaimers –
Disclaimer of Liability
Neither Milwaukee School of Engineering, nor any of its units, programs, employees, agents or individual trustees, shall be held liable for any improper or incorrect use of the information described and/or contained in the MSOE website and assumes no responsibility for anyone’s use of the information. In no event shall the university website, Milwaukee School of Engineering or its units, programs, employees, agents or individual trustees be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement or substitute goods or services; loss of use, data or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this system, even if advised of the possibility of such damage. This disclaimer of liability applies to any damages or injury, including but not limited to those caused by any failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, computer virus, communication line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, alteration of, or use of record, whether for breach of contract, tortious behavior, negligence or under any other cause of action.
Disclaimer of Warranties and Accuracy of Data
Although the data found using the Milwaukee School of Engineering access systems have been produced and processed from sources believed to be reliable, no warranty, express or implied, is made regarding accuracy, adequacy, completeness, legality, reliability or usefulness of any information. This disclaimer applies to both isolated and aggregate uses of the information. Milwaukee School of Engineering provides this information on an “as is” basis. All warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, freedom from contamination by computer viruses and non-infringement of proprietary rights are disclaimed. Changes may be periodically made to the information herein; these changes may or may not be incorporated in any new version of the website. If a user has obtained information from any of the MSOE Web pages via a source other than the MSOE pages, be aware that electronic data can be altered subsequent to original distribution. Data can also quickly become out of date. It is recommended that careful attention be paid to the contents of any data associated with a file, and that the originator of the data or information be contacted with any questions regarding appropriate use. If a user finds any errors or omissions, please report them to
community@msoe.edu
Disclaimer of Duty to Continue Provision of Data
Due to the dynamic nature of the Internet, resources that are free and publicly available one day may require a fee or restricted access the next, and the location of items may change as menus, pages and files are reorganized. The user expressly agrees that use of the university Web site is at the user’s sole risk. MSOE does not warrant that the service will be uninterrupted or error free. The documents and related graphics published on this Web or server could contain technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically added to the information herein. MSOE and/or its respective units and programs may make improvements and/or changes in the information and/or programs described herein at any time.
This information should not be construed in any way as giving business, legal, or other advice, or warranting as fail proof, the security of information provided via university-supported websites.
Contact information
If you have any questions concerning this policy, the practices of this site, or your interactions with this site, please contact:
Saj Thachenkary
Vice President of Marketing and Community Engagement
Milwaukee School of Engineering
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(800) 332-6763
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo