MSOE Leadership | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
MSOE Leadership
MSOE Leadership
Partnerships between business and industry leaders are the bedrock of MSOE's foundation. Since 1903, university leaders and community partners have built upon this foundation with the shared goal of providing an experiential education that results in work-ready graduates.
MSOE is under the guidance and leadership of
Dr. Eric T. Baumgartner
, who began his term as the university’s sixth president on Jan. 1, 2026.  Previously, Baumgartner served as MSOE’s Executive Vice President of Academics, a role he began in 2017 and through which he provided strategic leadership and direction for all of the academic programs and academic support units across campus. Prior to joining MSOE he served as dean of the T.J. Smull College of Engineering and professor of mechanical engineering at Ohio Northern University.
Baumgartner previously was a senior member of the engineering staff at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. Baumgartner also taught at UCLA and Michigan Technological University. He holds a bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Notre Dame, a master’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Cincinnati, a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the University of Notre Dame and a certificate from the Institute for Educational Management at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Dr. Eric and Annmarie Baumgartner
Learn more about President Eric Baumgartner and Annmarie Baumgartner, Executive Advisor for Strategic Engagement
The Executive Leadership Team serves as an advisory board for the president and plays an integral role in directing the duties of his/her department in fulfillment of the university’s mission and successful implementation of MSOE’s strategic plan.
Comprised of representatives of business, industry, government and education, the Board of Regents provides oversight of institutional policies, finances, priorities, and academic programs.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo