Who We Are | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
Who We Are
Who We Are
We’re dreamers, thinkers, makers and doers, a small university dedicated to achieving big things.
Since 1903, we’ve been an academic institution intrinsically tied to the real world—a confluence of business knowledge, work ethic, and an enduring desire to know more. A small university dedicated to achieving big things. We are a tight-knit group of individuals dedicated to promoting an academic environment marked by an unwavering respect for every person. Professors with years of industry experience inspire our students who pursue their passions with tenacity and resilience. Together, we unriddle the impossible and reinvent the way things are done.
1 / 6
The courage to be curious can change everything. At MSOE, your passion for exploring, building and wondering, "What if?", is celebrated. It's a place to rethink what's possible.
2 / 6
At MSOE, students learn on the leading edge of technology. Hands-on learning experiences, next generation technologies and top programs position MSOE at the forefront of artificial intelligence education. Students work on real-world projects that make a real impact. In fact, all projects seen in this video are real student projects.
3 / 6
Now these are some "Reasons to Believe" why MSOE is the university for you!
4 / 6
This is not your average American university. It’s where the enduring desire to learn more sits in our DNA. Where students and professors work together to create impact far beyond the city of Milwaukee and the shores of Lake Michigan.
5 / 6
One of the most important investments you'll make is your education. An education from MSOE means direct entry into programs (you'll take classes towards your major on day one!), a four year graduation guarantee, learning in the heart of Wisconsin's tech hub (downtown Milwaukee!), application oriented and hands-on learning, and so much more. Now more than ever, MSOE is a S.M.A.R.T. decision.
6 / 6
This is a campus where we chase possibilities.
About Us
Learn more about the students, faculty and leadership who make MSOE so special.
MSOE Leadership
Meet MSOE’s president and Board of Regents.
Mission, Vision and Values
MSOE’s mission, vision and values guide our work.
Accreditations
We are a fully accredited university.
MSOE History
MSOE has been educating students for more than a century.
The MSOE Guarantee
Our students graduate in four years.
Consumer Information and Policies
Get statistics, policies and other nitty-gritty details.
Rankings
MSOE’s reputation for excellence is well known.
Human Resources
Explore your career options at MSOE.
Accessibility
MSOE is committed to making its campus and the resources within accessible to all.
91.7FM WMSE
Tune in to this local radio station owned and operated by MSOE.
Career Outcomes Rate
96%
Class of 2024-25
U.S. News & World Report
2nd
Best University in the Midwest, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
#9
Undergraduate Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
4th
Best Value University in the Midwest, 2026
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo