FIRST FRC & FTC Team Sponsorship | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
About MSOE
K-12 STEM at MSOE
FIRST FRC & FTC Team Sponsorship
FIRST Robotics Team Sponsorship
Let us invest in your success.
MSOE offers sponsorship opportunities for FIRST FRC and high school FTC teams annually. Whether your team has been sponsored by MSOE before or you're a new team looking for sponsors, we invite you to apply for a sponsorship from our university!
All deadlines listed below are for noon CST.
2025-2026 Season Dates
FTC & FTC - Applications Open Sept. 6th
Friday, Dec. 5: Application Closes
Friday, Dec. 12 : Decisions Announced & E-Mailed to Team
To apply, please access the application using the link on our sidebar.
Requirements for FRC & High School FTC Teams
Funding is not guaranteed to any teams with MSOE faculty, staff, students or alumni serving as mentors for their teams. All sponsorships issued are for $500. Teams receiving funding are asked to:
Consider allowing MSOE to come speak to your team about our University - while not required, we'd love to tell you more about FIRST alumni opportunities at MSOE
Display the MSOE logo either on team shirts, team robot, or other swag worn by the team. Please advise our office  if your sponsorship structure precludes you from being able to do this & include documentation with your sponsorship structure. It will not affect your application for funding.
Include MSOE in any sponsorship materials and social media channels advertising sponsors
Teams will be issued funds in the form of a check addressed to the team OR host organization/school. Checks will not be made to individuals.
If your FTC team has both middle and high school students on it, you are welcome to apply for funding.
FLL & Middle School FTC Teams
While we no longer offer financial sponsorships, the We Energies STEM Center at MSOE is available for team use. If you need a space to build, to practice on full fields, or to meet, contact
stem@msoe.edu
to see how we can support your teams success.
MSOE hosted the regional FIRST Robotics Technical Challenge for students in grades 7 through 12.
Don't wait - apply today!
Use this link to apply for any of the rounds of funding when they open.
Apply for sponsorship
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo