Victoria University of Wellington | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Victoria University of Wellington
Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand
Study at the other end of the world and experience New Zealand’s breath-taking natural beauty, vibrant culture, and chat with the friendly locals (Kiwis).
Victoria University of Wellington (VUW), located in the country’s capital, consistently ranks among the top 300 of the world’s universities according to QS World University Rankings. VUW is known for its high-quality research and exceptional teaching. When you’re not in class, indulge in Wellington’s cafés, learn about the Māori culture, explore the stunning landscapes, or see where Lord of the Rings was filmed!
This program is
currently open to the following majors:
Business Majors - Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, Operations and Systems Management
Computer, Software, and Biomedical Engineering
Computer Science
Key Features
All courses are taught in English.
Students work with their program director to choose individual courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
This program is one semester long, from February to June, making it ideal for those who don’t want to be abroad for the whole year.
In most cases, participation does not delay graduation.
Students can take courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Minimum GPA Required: 2.7
Victoria University of Wellington
Founded in 1897,
Victoria University of Wellington
, also known as Te Herenga Waka, is a prestigious university with a strong focus on research and civic engagement. VUW has three campuses located in Wellington. The university is known for its diverse student body, strong academic programs, and close ties to the city and region. Make the most of your experience by choosing subjects and courses that are unique to New Zealand and the University, and/or join one of over 100 different
clubs
on campus.
Wellington, New Zealand
In
Wellington
you’ll be in the political, scientific, and cultural heart of New Zealand, surrounded by arts, culture, mountains, ocean, and lots of great food. You’ll be living in a compact, vibrant, safe, and fun city that Lonely Planet called the coolest little capital in the world.
Housing & Meals at VUW
MSOE students studying at VUW typically live in
Everton Hall
. This hall consists of five-bedroom flats in fully furnished apartment-style buildings. Students typically have a single bedroom and a shared bathroom and living space. Everton Hall is set beside Wellington’s iconic cable car and is only a short distance from the Kelburn campus.
The deadline to apply for housing (or accommodations as they say in New Zealand) is typically early in Fall semester. The deadline to apply will be posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page.
There are no formal meal plans, but you’ll have a variety of dining options, including affordable campus canteens, nearby restaurants, and local markets where you can shop and prepare your own meals.
General Calendar at VUW
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at VUW based on the university's
academic calendar
. MSOE students’ study during Trimester 1 at VUW (Spring semester). In general, you can plan for:
Mid-February: Arrival and Orientation
Late-February - End of May: Classes
Early-June - End of June: Exam Period
Courses at VUW
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
to discuss academic planning and course selection at VUW. Students will enroll in 45-60 points (3-4 courses) per trimester.
When viewing the
courses at VUW
, be sure the course is offered during Trimester 1 (Spring semester), double check prerequisites, and check if it is on the
restriction list
. Undergraduate students can only take 100-300 level courses. It can be helpful to start by viewing the
Course Examples for Study Abroad students
handout by VUW. For more detailed information on searching for courses and the course enrollment process, check out the
VUW Study Abroad Academics
page.
Courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation.
Getting a New Zealand Visa
Any student who does not hold a New Zealand or Australian passport will need to apply for a
Fee Paying Student Visa
to study at VUW. Multicultural Affairs will host a visa workshop to guide you through the paperwork and help you submit your application. Currently, students can submit their visa application online.
Important deadlines are posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page to ensure that all documents are submitted in time for your visa to be processed before departure.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs and additional insurance to meet the insurance requirements established by VUW.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program. The cost of this coverage will be billed to the student’s MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Upon enrollment at VUW all students will automatically be signed up for VUW’s Studentsafe Inbound University insurance. This insurance meets the requirements listed for the New Zealand visa.
Additional Information and Program Cost Estimates
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Study Abroad Interest Form
Interested in studying abroad? Let us know where you'd like to go!
Complete Interest Form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo