Frequently Asked Questions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Frequently Asked Questions
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the difference between professional development and continuing education?
At its core, “professional development” is an umbrella term that describes employees learning new skills and knowledge that they can apply to further success in their field. The term “continuing education” describes one type of professional development in which an employee – typically someone who already has completed an academic degree – pursues additional learning from a higher education institution.
What are the differences between CEUs, PDHs, and PDUs?
CEU stands for Continuing Education Unit, which is a ‘currency’ of sorts that helps measure a person’s participation in formal education programs, mostly for training that is related to professional development.
1 hour of training = 0.1 CEU
10 hours of training = 1.0 CEU
PDH stands for Professional Development Hour. A PDH credit is a contact hour of instruction or presentation; they are frequently required by organizations to maintain one’s professional license or certification.
1 hour of training = 1 PDH
By completing MSOE’s Center for Professional Education programs, you earn both PDHs and CEUs.
1 hour of training = 1 PDH = 0.1 CEU
PDU stands for Professional Development Unit. The Project Management Institute (PMI) uses PDUs as its measurement for continuing education. To retain an active PMP credential, Project Managers must continuously earn PDUs within predetermined parameters and submit them for PMI approval.
1 hour of training = 1 PDU
How do I register for a program or webinar?
MSOE Employees
Submit a
program inquiry
for the program you’d like to register for, and a CPE team member will contact you directly with next steps. Program enrollment for MSOE employees opens 2 weeks before the program start date based on availability.
Non-MSOE Employees
Visit
cpe.msoe.edu
and fill in your primary email address in the boxes under
I am a new user
. A username and password will be emailed to you upon submission.
You will be redirected to a page asking you to fill out your contact information (name and email, address and telephone, employer information, and privacy). Click submit to create your account.
Are there prerequisites or qualifications to register for a CPE program?
There are no prerequisites or qualifications to register for our programs and certificates unless otherwise specified.
Who can enroll in these programs?
We encourage all professionals who are interested in upskilling, reskilling, or new-skilling to enroll!
How much does a program typically cost?
Our program costs range depending on program length.
Programs shorter than 4 hours:
$99 - $199
Half-day programs (4 hours):
$249 - $299
Full-day programs (6-8 hours):
$599 - $699
Professional certificate programs (8+ hours over the course of multiple weeks):
$999+
Are there discounts or financial aid available?
We offer Early Bird Discounts for all of our online live, in-person, and hybrid programs. To take advantage, register for any of those programs up to two weeks before the start date, and at checkout, select the Apply Discount box and choose 'Early Bird Discount' from the drop-down menu to receive 20% off registration.
You can also pay via installment plan for any online live, in-person, and hybrid program we offer that costs over $749 and runs multiple weeks, such as
the Professional Certificate in Business Essentials (Mini-MBA)
,
Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certificate
, and the
Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification Preparation Course
. Installment payment plans are not available for our online self-paced programs as of yet.
If you enroll in multiple online live, in-person, or hybrid programs within the same series (ex. enrolling in both Introduction to Java Programming classes), you will receive a 25% discount on the overall price of the series.
Potential discounts for MSOE alumni are typically advertised in the bimonthly MSOE alumni newsletter.
Follow us on
LinkedIn
or
email us
to be added to our mailing list to stay abreast of potential discounts!
How do I pay for my program?
Once you have created a profile, add the program of your choice to your cart.
Complete any missing/additional information on your student portal to move forward with payment.
To pay, use your credit/debit card. A receipt confirmation will be sent via email.
IMPORTANT: If you are paying with a company credit card, make sure the zip code you are listing matches the zip code connected to the account, otherwise the transaction will not go through.
Can I request accommodations for a disability?
Contact
MSOE’s Student Accessibility Services (SAS) office
to request accommodations.
How do I cancel my registration?
Navigate to your student portal. On the left-hand side menu, navigate to
My Enrollment History
and select
Request Drop
. Your cancellation request will be automatically sent to the CPE team for processing.
If I am no longer able to attend my program, am I eligible for a refund?
If you withdraw from a program at least 10 business days prior to the start date, you'll receive a full refund.
What happens if my program is cancelled?
If your program is cancelled, you are entitled to a full refund. The CPE will contact participants directly in advance if a program is cancelled.
Are the programs held online or in person?
We offer programs in a variety of delivery modalities, including online live (also referred to as instructor-led, in-person, online self-paced, and hybrid (combinations of two of the above categories). By clicking on a certain subject category (ex. A.I. / Machine Learning, Project Management) on the landing page, you will be able to browse all available and upcoming programs by delivery modality.
When registering for a program, the drop-down menu under
Enroll Now
will list whether the class is online live, in-person, or online self-paced.
What video-conferencing software do I need for online programs?
Microsoft Teams is required for all our online programs.
Are the online programs live or self-paced?
We offer programs in
online live
(offered online in real time, i.e. synchronous delivery, via Microsoft Teams) and
online self-paced
(offered online with instruction and content accessible at any time by students without any required real time interactions) formats, as well as programs that are a combination of the two, like our Professional Certificate in Business Essentials. By clicking on a certain subject category (ex. A.I. / Machine Learning, Project Management) on the landing page, you will be able to browse all available and upcoming programs by delivery modality.
Is there a dress code for the in-person programs?
A business casual dress code is preferred for our in-person programs.
How do I convince my employer to pay for my professional development?
Build a strong business case by focusing on the direct benefits to the company, like improved skills and ROI, and present a detailed plan that aligns with company goals, while also being prepared to discuss costs, potential compromises (like sharing costs), and your commitment to staying with the company long-term. You can use our
Letter of Justification template
as a starting point.
Who do I contact if I am interested in MSOE providing customized training at my workplace?
Contact Crystal Fey, Associate Director of Business Development, via
email
or by calling 414-277-7195.
Where can I learn more about MSOE’s FERPA and Directory Information?
Visit this website to learn more about
MSOE's FERPA and Directory Information
.
Where can I learn more about MSOE’s Privacy Policy?
Visit this website to learn more about
MSOE's Privacy Policy
.
Center for Professional Education
(800) 321-6763
cpe@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo