Doing Business with China | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Short-Term Programs
Doing Business with China
Doing Business with China
China is endless in its depth and complexity.
In this two part series you will learn about doing business with China while exploring profound history, rich cultures, powerful politics, and unprecedented economic growth that are woven together into one of the most vibrant, complex, and important business environments in our global economy.
The program is being reviewed and redesigned. We are not currently sending students to China until further notice.
About the Program
The rapid growth of China and its integration with the global economy continues to be one of the most important business stories of our life time.  The ramifications of the massive transformation from an agrarian to a modern, industrial based economy reverberate through China’s domestic, cultural, and political systems; and through businesses around the globe.  Through experienced guests, readings and discussions you will learn about essential operating strategies, management issues, and ethical considerations to doing business with China.
Understanding Doing Business with China
With a population of 1.4 billion, China is the second largest economy. China’s role and influential as a leader in the global economy continues to grow. Yet, at the same time, it is a developing country (its per capita income is still a fraction of that in advanced countries). China’s markets and reforms are evolving and influence economies beyond its borders. Ramifications of this massive economic transformation reverberate through China’s domestic, cultural, and political systems; and through businesses around the world. Via experienced guests, readings and discussions you will learn about essential operating strategies, management issues, and ethical considerations, while understanding the intricate role culture plays in doing business with China.
Cultural Immersion
Extend your learning with a once in a life time opportunity to travel to Shanghai, Beijing, and rural China to experience business in China first-hand. Over 11 days you will network with executives from a variety of companies, meet with policy makers, and engage in meaningful discussions about current business issues, as well as everyday life issues. You will also experience the rich culture of China as you walk the Great Wall, barter in the market, and ride the subway. Additionally, you will compare and contrast rural and urban life through the servant leadership project. As leadership is progressively transferred to students before and during the trip, you will gain experience and confidence in international business.
Servant Leadership
The international servant leadership project is a signature of the program. Through partnership with the Library Project, students take leadership roles in this global project management to prepare, fundraise and serve a rural school. Understanding the integration of culture and business, as well as the challenges of global project management execution, will occur. Past students have noted this as a beneficial and life changing learning experience.
Understand key learning objectives and meet our corporate partners that are an important part of bringing this opportunity to life.
Learn more about the key dates and course expectations for this once in a lifetime experience.
You've read the details and course expectations, all that's left is to register!
As part of the application process, interested candidates must compose a well-written paragraph or essay.
The application process requires that each candidate submit a minimum of two letters of recommendation/support.
Dr. C. Kelly Lawrence Ottman
Professor, Rader School of Business
414 (303)-9339 (cell phone)
ottman@msoe.edu
Dr. Ottman has extensive travel experience and has taught in China.
Doing Business with China Application
Application deadline is: January 21, 2019!
Download the application!
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo