Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering
Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering
Certificate Information
This certificate will serve as a follow-on to the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning.
It will provide deep technical content that will enable the student to integrate, deploy, and monitor machine learning solutions into software systems running in cloud or on-premise environments.
All 8 credits can be applied towards the Master's in Machine Learning and can be completed in two semesters.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Required Admissions Documents
Online synchronous (two nights a week, 2-hour live lecture)
8 credits
Resume
Official undergraduate transcripts
Admission Requirements
Successful completion of the Graduate Certificate Applied Machine Learning or equivalent coursework.
Programming experience with modern language such at Python, C#, or Java.
One year of coursework or equivalent minimum.
A data structures course is preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed).
At least a year of differential and integral calculus.
A course equivalent to MSOE's CSC5610 AI Tools and Paradigms (can be taken at MSOE if needed).
Pathway to a Master's
This online certificate program is an excellent pathway to a bright future working with machine learning and AI technologies, but it is also a stepping stone for the Master of Science in Machine Learning. The certificate to master’s pathway allows you to pursue your education step-by-step with breaks in between.
100% of credits earned in this certificate can be applied toward the MS in Machine Learning degree.
Use what you learned from the certificate today, and return tomorrow to continue expanding your skill set.
Explore the master's program.
Alternative Certificate Options
New to machine learning and AI? The
Applied Machine Learning
certificate is a great place to start and gain foundational knowledge in this space before continuing into one of our other certificates.
Tiny computers are in everything around us. Smartwatches, TVs, thermostats, and so much more! Want to learn how to make smart devices? Consider our
Graduate Certificate Tiny Machine Learning.
Want to know how to build and deploy your own interactive AI assistants and systems like OpenAI's ChatGPT, Microsoft's Copilot, or Google's Gemini? The
Generative AI Production Systems
certificate will teach you how to design, implement, and operate your own AI-powered systems.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering in our catalog.
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo