Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering
Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering
The Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering Department is the oldest and largest academic department at MSOE.
Here you’ll learn how to design and develop electrical systems and innovative devices as you work alongside knowledgeable faculty mentors who are active in research and considered leaders in their profession. With student-centered faculty and staff, more than a dozen engineering laboratories, the ECBE Technical Support Center and close industry ties, our department prides itself on providing the environment and tools students need to succeed in their careers in a global society.
The department's main office is located on the third floor of the
Walter Schroeder Library
and may be reached at (414) 277-7575.
Get to know the faculty and staff in the Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering Department.
The AI for Emerging Applications certificate is an interdisciplinary sequence of asynchronous course work, combined with a practicum experience that allows students from any major to develop a breadth of skills in the emerging realm of artificial intelligence (AI),
The biomedical engineering minor is designed for students in other engineering programs who are interested in medical device or health-related applications.
To achieve technical depth in hardware design, MSOE computer engineers study digital logic, computer architecture, electric circuits, electronics, signal theory, digital signal processing, and computer networking.
An electrical engineering minor complements many other engineering majors, providing a comprehensive circuits foundation and the option to gain depth in key topical electrical engineering areas.
View Academic Catalog
MSOE's course catalog provides our students with detailed information on courses, policies, procedures and more.
View Catalog
ECBE Department
Walter Schroeder Library - Third Floor L-350
(414) 277-7575
Technical Support Center
Allen Bradley Hall of Science - Third Floor - S348
(414) 277-0464
Hours of Operation:
Mon-Thurs 7:30am-10pm
Fri 7:30am-5pm
Sat 10am-6pm
Break Week:
Mon-Friday 7:30am-4pm
Virtually Tour MSOE!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo