Nursing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Health
Nursing
School of Nursing Graduate Degrees
A Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) prepares students to advance their nursing career. There are two options within MSOE’s MSN program: the business-oriented Executive Leadership and Management Track or a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track for those seeking to provide mental health care.
Mission
MSOE School of Nursing is the academic institution of choice for those seeking an inclusive community of experiential learners who are dedicated to a holistic, team-based approach for solving complex health challenges of today and tomorrow.
Vision
The MSOE School of Nursing sets the standard for excellence in preparing nurses who will impact society as expert practitioners, leaders, and scholars.
Executive Leadership and Management Program
Are you prepared to become the nursing leader of tomorrow? The MSOE MSN Nurse-Leader: Management and Executive Program promotes skills and knowledge that nurse-leaders can implement and use to achieve change. Coursework emphasizes the application of knowledge and skills in real-world environments. The program emphasizes executive concepts such as managing financial resources, managing human capital, analyzing large data sets, understanding complex organizational systems, and ensuring quality and safety, all through the lens of nursing practice.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online
37 credits, 505 practicum hours
Undergraduate transcripts
Proof of valid, unrestricted RN license
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Nursing – Executive Leadership and Management Track graduate degree.
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Programs
The National Alliance on Mental Illnesses estimates that 1 in 5 adults suffers from some sort of mental health disorder such as depression, anxiety, substance abuse, and other illnesses. The U.S. is suffering from a dramatic shortage of mental health providers who are equipped to handle the issues that accompany mental health disorders. Studies suggest that by 2025, demand for mental health services by appropriately trained practitioners will outpace supply by approximately 10,000.
We offer two programs: the MSN PMHNP and a post-Master's PMHNP certificate. Our unique programs specialize in a holistic approach to advanced practice mental health nursing. The programs have a strong emphasis on psychotherapy and employ holistic modalities such as solution-focused therapy, modeling and role modeling, and existentialism. Upon completion of the program, in addition to AHNCC PMHNP certification, students are eligible for holistic nursing certification through the American Holistic Nurses Credentialing Center (AHNCC). MSOE’s program is also accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org
).
Curriculum Format
Blended Internet Delivery
Blended courses meet synchronously and asynchronously throughout the semester. In addition, NUR6220 Advanced Health Assessment and NUR7220 APRN Psychiatric Mental Health 3: Care of Families and Groups will each have a 3-day immersion, which will require travel and attendance of activities on campus; students will be informed of the dates at the time the schedule is posted.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online with 2 on-campus immersions
46 credits, 600 practicum hours
Undergraduate transcripts with proof of BSN
Proof of valid, unrestricted RN license
Read more about MSOE's Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track programs.
Admissions Process
Submit application online.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or mail.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Get to know our distinguished nursing faculty!
A helpful list of frequently asked questions about MSOE's MSN program.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Nursing degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org
) and have full approval of the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services
(http://dsps.wi.gov)
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008.
If applying from out of state, please check your current State Board of Nursing and/or State Board of Education policy on receiving out of state online education and having in-state practicums.
This does not disqualify you from enrolling in the program but may require further discussion with the program director.
Below is an indication of whether the
M.S. in Nursing
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
WI
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, GU, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WV, WY
Below is an indication of whether the
M.S. in Nursing Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, GU, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WI, WV, WY
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
None
Additional requirements may be necessary in the following states:
ND, NY, PA, OH, KY, NM
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more? Fill out the graduate inquiry form and admissions will be in touch!
Inquiry Form
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Fill out an application through NursingCAS and admissions will be in touch!
Apply Now
2026 Best Online Nursing Programs
M.S. in Nursing named to Best Online Programs by U.S. News and World Report
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo