Lille Catholic University | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Lille Catholic University
Lille Catholic University
Interested in studying abroad, but don’t want to be gone for a whole semester or year? Looking to catch up on some of your electives? Then check out our summer study-abroad program in Lille, France.
Université Catholique de Lille’s European Summer Program, located in Lille, France, is the ideal program for students who are looking for short-term travel opportunities. Students attending the month-long summer program complete two elective courses, experience French culture firsthand and join an international, multicultural student community.
This program is currently open to all majors!
Key Features:
All courses are taught in English, with options to take courses in French
Choose from two month-long program sessions in June and July
Course options are typically in the following areas: Liberal Arts, Business & Communication, Health, European Studies, Sustainability & the Sciences, and French Language
Experience European culture and live within close proximity to Paris, London, Brussels, and Amsterdam
Students must be in good academic standing in order to go to Lille
Université Catholique de Lille
Université Catholique de Lille, founded in 1875, has recently celebrated 25 years of hosting the
Lille European Summer Program
(ESP). Lille ESP is a four-week academic experience designed for international students and instructors to combine academic learning with cultural immersion in France. The program also includes a range of cultural outings that allow students to discover French and European heritage via guided field trips to Brussels, Bruges, Normandy, Reims, and WWI battlefield sites, as well as local visits in and around Lille.
Lille, France
Lille is located in the north of France at the heart of the Paris-London-Brussels triangle. Students are easily able to take weekend trips to numerous cities and countries during their program. Lille is a city of beautiful art and culture, with world-renowned museums and countless art festivals throughout the year.
Housing and Meals at Lille
Students will live in
individual rooms
in secure, private student residences that are easily accessible to campus by walking or public transit. The residences are operated by university-associated partners.
Students will receive a meal pass with a €50 credit for use at the university restaurant. This card can be recharged online at the student’s expense once used. There are also a variety of dining options off campus, including nearby restaurants and cafes.
General Calendar at Lille
Lille ESP is a four-week study abroad experience. Students are able to choose between two sessions. The
Lille ESP website
will provide the most up-to-date information as well as an example draft schedule.
European Summer Program 2026:
ESP1 – May 20
th
to June 19
th
2026
ESP2 – June 23
rd
to July 22
nd
2026
If you are interested in studying abroad in Lille,
you must contact Multicultural Affairs before March 1
st
and commit to the program
. Your study abroad advisor will then instruct you on how to complete the application (Applications due: ESP1 = April 1
st
, ESP2 = May 1
st
). Please keep in mind that you will be required to pay the total cost of the program at the time of application.
Courses at Lille
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
to discuss academic planning and course selection at Lille.
Students on the ESP program will enroll in two courses (6 credits total). One course will be taught in the morning and the other will be taught in the afternoon. Courses generally are taught in the areas of Liberal Arts, Business & Communication, Health, European Studies, Sustainability & the Sciences, and French Language.
To view the most up-to-date courses, visit the
Course List
on Lille’s website. If there are no courses showing up, it means they have not yet been updated for the upcoming summer program.
Courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program. The cost of this coverage will be billed to the student’s MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Additional Information and Program Cost Estimates
Students studying abroad at Lille are electing to take summer courses, which means that typical MSOE scholarships or financial aid will not apply.
The
program cost
, due upon registration, includes tuition, housing, €50 meal credit, monthly pass for the Lille transportation system, fieldtrips, and several group dinners. For a detailed cost break down, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo