Hydraulic Systems Volume 5: Safety and Maintenance | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 5: Safety and Maintenance
Hydraulic Systems Volume 5: Safety and Maintenance
This 3-day (18-hour) seminar is targeting industry professionals who are in charge of operating, maintaining, and troubleshooting hydraulic systems. This seminar is also a great learning source for mechanical engineers and service manuals technical writers.
The seminar starts by introducing best practices for safe design, commissioning, operating and servicing hydraulic components. The seminar then presents the maintenance concepts and measuring instruments commonly applicable for hydraulic system maintenance. The seminar follows that by presenting five sets of best practices for each of the following components: pumps, motors, cylinders valves, accumulators, reservoirs, transmission lines, heat exchangers, and filters.
Program Overview
Dates:
January 12-14, 2026
CEUs:
1.8 |
PDHs:
18
Cost:
$1300 per person.
Who Should Attend
Mechanical and industrial engineers. Hydraulic system operators, servicers, troubleshooters. Technical manual editors.
Course Material:
Hydraulic Systems Volume 5: Safety and Maintenance
Workbook 5: Safety and Maintenance
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Apply required safety measures during system design, commissioning and servicing.
Apply proper inspection for common hydraulic components.
Apply the following best practices for common hydraulic components: selection, replacement, disassembling, maintenance, assembling, installation, standard testing, transportation, and storage.
Course Outline:
Chapter 01: Hydraulic System Safety
Chapter 02: Basic Concepts of Hydraulic System Maintenance
Chapter 03: Hydraulic Measuring Instruments
Chapter 04: Maintenance of Pumps
Chapter 05: Maintenance of Motors
Chapter 06: Maintenance of Cylinders
Chapter 07: Maintenance of Valves
Chapter 08: Maintenance of Accumulators
Chapter 09: Maintenance of Reservoirs
Chapter 10: Maintenance of Transmission Lines
Chapter 11: Maintenance of Heat Exchanges
Chapter 12: Maintenance of Filters
Agenda
Days 1-3:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks are provided throughout the day.
Instructors:
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Kerrigan Tim
– Director of Fluid Power Institute, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Register Now
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register Now!
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo