Engineering Programs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering Programs
We Build Engineers
Engineers are the forward-thinking problem-solvers that shape the world we live in. MSOE’s bachelor’s degrees in electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and industrial engineering place a strong emphasis on design, applications and experience-based learning through laboratory experimentation and real-world projects. These programs prepare students for careers in industry ranging from robotics to manufacturing, biotechnology to aerospace, and everything in between. Learn more about how an MSOE degree can take you to new heights.
Contrary to popular belief, the field of electrical engineering is about much more than simply sitting in front of a circuit board. Through their work, electrical engineers make a difference in the world and improve people’s everyday lives.
Essential to industrial enterprise, mechanical engineering is versatile and continuously evolving. Mechanical engineers use their knowledge of design, energy and materials to ensure that objects function more efficiently to conserve resources.
Often described as the “people-oriented” engineering profession, industrial engineering combines your abilities in math, logic and organization with a core understanding of business objectives to streamline operations and conserve resources.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo