The Principals' Center | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Business
MBA in Education Leadership
The Principals' Center
The Principals' Center
The Principals’ Center at MSOE provides continuous support and growth opportunities for school leaders throughout their careers.
The Principals' Center is the premier hub for school leadership development. MSOE takes pride in being home to TPC and is dedicated to empowering and supporting school leaders in their journey toward excellence. Originally founded by Roland Barth at the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1981, TPC has since expanded its reach across the globe, touching the lives of countless educators.
School leaders and aspiring school leaders from all public, parochial and private K-12 schools and districts are invited to actively engage in programming offered by The Principals' Center (TPC). There are a wide range of benefits including:
Engaging Breakfast Conversations:
Throughout the year, we provide the perfect platform for networking and engaging in thought-provoking discussions on current educational topics.
Dynamic Workshops and Conversations:
We lead workshops and facilitate reflective conversations based on the latest research and best practices, empowering principals with cutting-edge knowledge.
Collegial Relationships and Knowledge Exchange:
We encourage the development of collegial relationships, promoting a fruitful exchange of ideas to support continuous professional growth.
MSOE Faculty and Student Interaction:
Our school leaders engage in a mutual exchange of ideas with MSOE faculty and students, fostering a learning environment that benefits all parties involved.
Facilitating Effective Practice:
The Principals’ Center stands firmly behind the goal of positively impacting student achievement through the implementation of effective leadership practices.
Photo from the June 12, 2024 event
The Principals' Center Board of Directors
Locally, TPC is governed by a board of directors whose members are practicing or retired school leaders and a faculty liaison from the university.
Michele Trawicki
, Program Director, MBA EL at MSOE and faculty liaison:
trawickim@msoe.edu
Mike Budisch
, Retired Principal:
budischmike@gmail.com
Dr. Michelle Garven
, District Administrator, Cudahy School District:
garvenm@cudahysd.org
Melissa Horn
, Principal, Woodside Elementary, Hamilton School District:
hornme@hamilton.k12.wi.u
Steve Newcomer
, Principal, Merton Elementary, Merton School District:
newcomers@merton.k12.wi.us
Joe Russell
, Principal, Washington Elementary School, Wauwatosa School District:
russeljo@wauwatosa.k12.wi.us
Debra Paradowski
, Associate Principal, Mukwonago High School:
paradde@masd.k12.wi.us
Teresa Ewald,
Consultant, Cesa 1:
tewald@cesa1.k12.wi.us
Mark Supa
, Principal, Roosevelt Elementary:
supama@wauwatosa.k12.wi.us
Dr. Kathy Kramer
, Dean, School of Education and Human Services Carroll University:
kkramer@carrollu.edu
Eric Dimmitt
, Clinical Associate Professor, Marquette University:
eric.dimmitt@marquette.edu
Discover how you can build the skills, knowledge, and network to lead schools with impact.
Michele Trawicki
TPC Faculty Liaison, MSOE Education Leadership Program Director
(414) 277-7286
trawickim@msoe.edu
The Principals' Center: AI as a Thought Partner
Register today for professional development and networking opportunities for Southeastern Wisconsin school leaders.
Register for the leadership event
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo