Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders
Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders
Certificate Information
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders prepares teachers and administrators in understanding the key relationships between education and business practices. Integrating business processes, financial components, and change management are necessary to successfully lead in any school district.
This 16-credit certificate offers four core courses to educators looking to learn more about business acumen in a school setting. Project Management, Marketing, Finance, Accounting, and Organizational Behavior. All courses transfer to MBA in Education Leadership program.
The program is open to educators with a bachelor’s degree or higher.
Participants will directly apply their learning through a project implemented at their school site with the support of a site supervisor and university supervisor.
Courses are offered asynchronously and can accommodate a start any semester! The structure and courses offered in this certificate will allow educators to create efficient and effective systems while managing the ever-changing landscape of education. The Business Certificate for School Leaders can be completed in two semesters of part-time study.
Required Courses:
BUS 5700 Marketing - 3 credits
BUS 6000 Organizational Behavior - 3 credits
BUS 6202 Finance and Accounting - 3 credits
BUS 6151 Data Visualization - 3 credits
BUS 7921 - Applied Project Management I - 1 credit
BUS 7922 - Applied Project Management II -1 credit
BUS 7923 - Applied Project Management III - 1 credit
BUS7924 - Applied Project Management IV - 1 credit
Admission Requirements
Must have earned an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution.
Must be working full time as an educator or leader in a K-12 school setting or not-for-profit.
Documents Needed
Official undergraduate transcripts
Resume
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Business for School Leaders? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo