Hydraulic Systems Volume 2: Electrohydraulic Components and Systems | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 2: Electrohydraulic Components and Systems
Hydraulic Systems Volume 2: Electrohydraulic Components and Systems
Electrification of hydraulic systems became a trend over the past two decades and will continue in the future. This 27-hour (5-day) seminar is designed to overview electrohydraulic components and systems. The seminar starts by discussing the basic difference between hydraulic and electrical control and how to merge both in one system. Following that part, the seminar presents several examples about how to convert a legacy hydromechanical system to an electrohydraulic system.
The seminar presents detailed discussion about the construction, principle of operation, selection, and sizing of solenoid operated valves, proportional valves, and servo valves. The seminar also covers the electrical control units used to drive such valves. The seminar also covers the concept of on/off control versus analog control using open-loop and closed-loop electro-hydraulic concepts. The state-of-the-art Universal Fluid Power Trainers are used to demonstrate the theory presented.
Program Overview
Date:
Oct 20-24, 2025
CEUs:
2.7 |
PDHs:
27
Cost:
$2,700 per person.
Who Should Attend
Application engineers, system integrators, motion control engineers, sales engineers, field engineers and end users of electro-hydraulic components.
Seminar attendees receive a copy of
“
Electro-Hydraulic Components and Systems, Hydraulic Systems Volume 2
”
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Recognize the difference in construction, principle of operation and characteristics between ON/OFF valves, proportional valves and servo valves.
Apply real-time control technique for EH systems and perform infield tuning to adjust the system performance.
Read the basic electronic schematics of the proportional/servo valve amplifiers.
Make the best selection of the components required to build open- and closed-loop electro-hydraulic control systems.
Program Details
Course Outline:
CH. 1 Hydraulic versus Electrical Systems
CH. 2 Hydro-Mechanical versus Electro-Hydraulic Solutions
CH. 3 Switching Valves Construction and Operation
CH. 4 Electrical Circuits for Switching Valves
CH. 5 Proportional Valves
CH. 6 Servo Valves
CH. 7 Electro-Hydraulic Valve Selection Criteria
CH. 8 Open-Loop versus Closed-Loop EH Applications
CH. 9 Control Electronics for Electro-Hydraulic Valves
Ch. 10 Electro-Hydraulic Valves Commissioning and Maintenance
Agenda
Days 1-4:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Day 5:
9 a.m. to noon
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks provided throughout the day.
Laboratory Sessions
Lab20:
Cylinder extension upon pressing a push-button
Lab21:
Signal storage by electrical self-locking
Lab22:
Electrical locking by means of contactors contact
Lab23:
Position-dependent cylinder deceleration
Lab24:
Pressure-Dependent cylinder reversal
Lab25:
Event-Dependent warning circuit
Lab26:
Cylinder Motion Control Performance using Switching Valve vs. Proportional Valve
Lab27:
Cylinder Motion Control Performance using Servo Valve vs. Proportional Valve
Lab28:
Digital Control of EH Variable Displacement Pumps
Lab29:
Digital Control of Electro-Hydraulic Cylinder Position
Instructors
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Previous Session Evaluations
Electrohydraulic Components and Systems (77076)
Electrohydraulic Components and Systems (70203)
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo