Online MBA in Education Leadership | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Online Graduate Programs
Online MBA Programs
Online MBA in Education Leadership
Online MBA in Education Leadership
The MBA for a new type of educational leader.
MSOE’s Rader School of Business MBA in Education Leadership (MBA EL) is the
first program of its kind in the U.S.
, combining a rigorous MBA curriculum with unique courses tailored to aspiring school leaders, non-profit educators or school business managers. This program applies traditional business principles to advance education. This is the only MBA that gives you the ability to earn multiple Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction licenses.
Our focus is on developing
better educators and transformative leaders
—not just training teachers. You'll gain a robust business foundation through an educational lens, preparing you to lead with vision and expertise.
Upon successful completion of this program, you will receive an MBA and be eligible to pursue Wisconsin State Principal Licensure.
Earn your online MBA with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Which track is right for you?
Track
Who It's For
Key Benefit
Non-licensure
Individuals working in non-profit, private, or parochial education where a state teaching or principal license is not required for advancement.
Gain leadership skills tailored for organizations that operate outside of the public school system.
Business Manager
Professionals who serve as business managers or administrators within a school district.
Develop advanced business acumen and administrative expertise needed to be a highly effective leader.
Principal Licensure
Current public school teachers
Fulfill the academic requirements for principal licensure while earning a comprehensive MBA degree.
Online MBA in Education Leadership Program Details
Offered 100% online
Designed for working professionals.
Complete in 18 months with full-time study or 2 years with part-time study
37 credits
Pathway to a Wisconsin principal licensure.
Diverse cohorts - urban, suburban, rural, private, choice, charter, public, non-profit sector
MBA in Education Leadership Program Outcomes
The MSOE MBA EL is designed to develop competencies in a broad range of topics. Through this program, you will:
Lead educational change efforts to raise the achievement of all students, with a focus on eliminating and preventing the global achievement gap in PK–12 education
Demonstrate the ongoing integration of effective leadership traits and ethical principles into personal and professional personas
Build and sustain relationships among diverse constituents, stakeholders and policymakers that foster a culture conducive to high student achievement
Develop the next generation of educators who will continue to pursue global excellence in student achievement
Manage school environments to foster student achievement, realize staff development, and nurture the public trust while creating and sustaining an ecology that fosters positive character formation
Hear directly from our students how MSOE’s MBA in Education Leadership is building leaders and transforming futures.
Peter R., MBA in Education Leadership, '17, Chief Operations Officer for the Racine Unified School District
Pathway to Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction Licenses
The MBA in Education Leadership is a Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction approved program for principal licensure (5051) that offers educators an alternative to traditional Master of Education Administration degree programs.
You may also add the Director of Instruction (5010) and School Business Administrator (5008) licenses by enrolling in additional course work.
Our program is based on a school partner model that involves existing school leadership and MSOE program faculty in the definition of field projects that will advance important school initiatives and provide you with an authentic embedded learning experience.
MBA in Education Leadership Curriculum Overview
MBA Required courses (19 courses)
BUS 5700 Marketing (3 credits)
BUS 6000 Organizational Behavior (3 credits)
BUS 6100 Ethical Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6151 Data Visualization (3 credits)
BUS 6400 Economics (3 credits)
BUS 7921 Applied Project Management I (1 credit)
BUS 7922 Applied Project Management II (1 credit)
BUS 7923 Applied Project Management III (1 credit)
BUS 7924 Applied Project Management IV (1 credit)
Education Leadership Specialization Courses (18 credits)
BUS 6112 Global Achievement Gap-Education Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6202 Finance and Accounting-Education Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6302 Statistical Thinking and Data Analytics-Education Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6602 Human Resource Management-Education Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6802 Innovation and Entrepreneurship-Education Leadership (3 credits)
BUS 6902 Strategy-Education Leadership (3 credits)
Total credits for the program: 37
Get details on the admissions requirements for the MSOE Online MBA in Education Leadership.
Inquiry Form
Earn your online MBA with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Fill out inquiry form
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Michele Trawicki
MBA EL Program Director
(414) 277-7286
trawicki@msoe.edu
Graduate Outcomes
>50%
More than half of MSOE MBA EL graduates take on leadership roles within the first year of graduation.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo