Hydraulic Systems Volume 4: Hydraulic Fluids Conditioning | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 4: Hydraulic Fluids Conditioning
Hydraulic Systems Volume 4: Hydraulic Fluids Conditioning
This 2.5-day (15-hour) seminar is designed to cover the knowledge related to conditioning of hydraulic fluids such as hosing in reservoirs, sealing, transmission through conductors, temperature control, and filtration. Each of the fluid conditioning requirement is thoroughly discussed showing various techniques, sizing calculations, and selection criteria. The book is unique in the amount of literature gathered from leading manufacturers of reservoirs, seals, transmission lines, heat exchangers, and filters.
This seminar and HSV3 form a very important knowledge foundation for both design engineers and system operators as well. This course is only offered as private group training. A minimum of 10 students OR a minimum charge of $10,000 is required to register.
Program Overview
This course is only offered as private group training. A minimum of 10 students OR a minimum charge of $12,000 is required to register
CEUs:
1.5 |
PDHs:
15
Cost:
$1200 per person
Who Should Attend
Mechanical and industrial engineers. Hydraulic system designers and operators.
Course Material
Hydraulic Systems Volume 4: Hydraulic Fluids Conditioning
Workbook 4: Hydraulic Fluids Conditioning
Seminar attendees receive a copy of
“
Hydraulic Systems Volume 4: Hydraulic Fluids and Contamination Control
”
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Recognize the proper and common sealing solution for hydraulic cylinders.
Understand the main properties of hydraulic seals and method of testing.
Size hydraulic reservoirs, calculate the oil filling volume, and specify the required accessories for a reservoir for a system to perform reliably.
Size and specify proper transmission lines for suction, pressure and return lines.
Understand the construction and operation of various types of heat exchanges.
Calculate the required cooling capacity and size the heat exchanger.
Understand the construction and operation of various types of hydraulic filters
Specify and size hydraulic filters for an application
Program Details:
Course Outline:
Chapter 1:
Introduction
Chapter 2:
Hydraulic Reservoirs
Chapter 3:
Hydraulic Transmission Lines
Chapter 4:
Hydraulic Sealing Elements
Chapter 5:
Hydraulic Heat Exchangers
Chapter 6:
Introduction to Hydraulic Filters
Chapter 7:
Filter Media and Filtration Mechanisms
Chapter 8:
Filter Selection Criteria
Agenda
Days 1-2:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Days 2:
9 a.m. to noon. – Lunch: noon
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks provided throughout the day.
Instructors:
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Tim Kerrigan
– Adjunct Trainer, Fluid Power Institute
TM
, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register Now!
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo