Gerontology Certificate  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
Gerontology Certificate
Gerontology Certificate
This certificate is designed for Registered Nurses who are looking to increase their knowledge, skills and confidence in caring for the older adult population.
The Gerontology Certificate is a series of four courses (12 credits) offered over an eight-month period. The program is open to any nurse, whether prepared as an ADN, BSN, MSN or with a terminal degree. It is tailored to the working nurse with a combination of in-class and online learning. This program will also prepare you for the ANCC Gerontological Nursing Certification (RN-BC) by providing the continuing education hours in gerontological nursing required for eligibility.
Why Obtain a Gerontology Certificate?
Nurses provide front-line health care for older adults in a variety of settings, including preventative care in primary care offices and the community, acute care in hospitals and long-term care in assisted living facilities and nursing homes. Nurses who have additional education in this area of health care will be better able to anticipate, prepare for and meet the needs of the increased number of older adults.
Advantages and career opportunities with a certificate include:
Confidence in providing exceptional care to older adults in any setting
Preparation for certification as a gerontological nurse
Movement up the clinical ladder
Admission Requirements
The only admission requirement is a current RN license.
Certificate Requirements
Courses start in the beginning of March and go through the end of November. Courses are as follows:
Nursing Care of Older Adults – 8 weeks: runs March-May
Gerontological Management of Care – 5 weeks: runs June-July
Gerontological Policy, Service and Social Issues – 5 weeks: runs July-August
Death and Dying – 8 weeks: runs September-November
No required clinical time
Dr. Havilah Normington
Campus Center CC106
(414) 277-2685
normington@msoe.edu
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Gerontology Certificate Details
Read more detailed descriptions on the courses required to secure this certificate.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo