Fluid Power Institute™ | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Engineering
Fluid Power Institute™
MSOE Fluid Power Institute™
Leading hydraulic fluid motion control research and education since 1962.
6 decades
of innovation in fluid power research and development
17,186 square feet of laboratories
for pioneering of fluid power research and experiential learning
Custom Power Units
designed to replicate real-world conditions
Industry Collaboration
for applied research and new technology development
Experiential Learning
for MSOE students through real-world projects
Expertise in Hydraulic Component Performance Evaluation including:
Cylinders
Fluids
Seals
Pumps
Motors
Sensors
Meet the Director —
Paul Michael
The Fluid Power Institute™ (FPI) has been a leader in hydraulic fluid power innovation since 1962. We specialize in evaluating new fluid power technologies using customized power units that replicate real-world conditions with precision. Our applied research services help industry partners evaluate and refine new technologies while providing hands-on learning opportunities for MSOE students. Each year, graduate and undergraduate students gain invaluable experience with fluid power components, electronics, controls, sensors, data analysis, and systems in our labs. We’re always looking for new collaboration opportunities—whether it’s testing cutting-edge technology or sponsoring student projects. Let’s explore how we can work together to advance innovation in the great field of Fluid Power!
Industry Partnerships
We are a member of several industry organizations. Through our 30-year membership to the
National Fluid Power Association (NFPA)
, we contribute to youth outreach, ongoing/professional education, and industry advisory committees. Our staff also contributes material to organizations like
ASTM
and
ISO
.
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Fluid Power is designed for recent graduates and professionals interested in developing in-depth engineering skills in the field of hydraulic fluid power and motion control.
MSOE offers eight educational seminars and certification courses through our Center for Professional Education.
Tests we perform include, but are not limited to, performance, efficiency, endurance, fatigue and burst. Additionally, we provide clients with custom assessments for components and systems using finite element analysis, computational fluid dynamics and other modelling programs.
In our tribology laboratory, we have developed specialized analytical tools such as particle counting, ferrography, laser particle imaging, atomic force microscopy, stereomicroscopy and more. Clients of these services include both commercial and governmental institutions. A notable portion of our research and development on fluid power efficiency is funded by the National Science Foundation.
Fully instrumented axial piston pump with sensors for measuring temperature and pressure conditions.
Cooling fan and 125 HP  low-speed constant torque load motor
Directional control valve and flow meter with ball valve.
200 HP Electric motor
25 Gal. Hydraulic Fluid Reservoir
Test motor (yellow) with torque transducer
Paul Michael
Director, Fluid Power Institute
(414) 277-2238
michael@msoe.edu
Fluid Power Industrial Consortium (FPIC)
The FPIC is a partnership with the National Fluid Power Association and other stakeholders in the fluid power industry. The FPIC provides quarterly half-day technical seminars with a focus on the latest technological advances that provide you with solutions to overcoming challenges within your industry.
Learn more
MSOE develops innovative new testing method
When Hallite Seals America, a global manufacturer of fluid-power hydraulic and pneumatic seals, O-rings, and bearings, went looking for a partner to develop a proprietary, one-of-a-kind testing system, it didn’t take long to choose MSOE and its Fluid Power Institute (FPI).
Read more
Fluid Power Education Powers Industry
From the foundations of fluid power to the latest technological advancements, companies turn to MSOE to help their employees stay current or advance their skills.
Read more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo