Research Experience for Undergraduates | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Undergraduate Research
Research Experience for Undergraduates
Research Experience for Undergraduates
Research Experience for Undergraduates in Space Systems Technology. A unique 10-week summer research program at MSOE. The REU program is pending funding from the National Science Foundation.
A broad mix of undergraduate students will participate in innovative research projects focused on space systems technology. These projects will explore cutting-edge areas, including space mechanism design theory and its applications, design of self-healing additively manufactured materials for space component repair, design of health monitoring wearables for astronauts, simulations of space vehicles in low-gravity environments, and more. All research projects aim to advance societal well-being, improve U.S. economic competitiveness, and/or foster environmental sustainability.
Students will have access to a strongly mentored research environment where each student is mentored by an MSOE mechanical engineering faculty member. Students will explore MSOE’s state-of-the-art research resources such as MSOE’s advanced additive manufacturing equipment and MSOE’s Supercomputer, ‘Rosie’, located in the Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall. Exciting field trips include visits to a local aerospace company and Marquette University. All students will also have an opportunity to present their research work at the Wisconsin Space Conference!
Important Dates
Program Dates:
June 15th to August 21st, 2026 (Tentative)
Application Deadline:
Not Currently Accepting Applications
(Pending NSF Support)
Early application is highly encouraged.
Who Should Apply?
Students who have completed their sophomore year of a pre-engineering, engineering (mechanical, aerospace, electrical, mechatronics, etc.), computer science, applied mathematics, or applied physics curriculum; are enrolled in a university for the fall term; are a full-time student with a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater; are a U.S. Citizen, U.S. National or permanent resident of the United States; have an interest in research and in learning about Space Systems Technology will be considered. Accepted candidates will participate 40 hours per week for the 10-week session. All students receive an attractive stipend ($700 per week), travel allowance, and an MSOE meal plan. On-campus housing is also provided.
How to Apply
Student Qualifications in General
Completed the sophomore year of pre-engineering, engineering (mechanical, aerospace, electrical, mechatronics, etc.), computer science, applied mathematics, applied physics, or related field.
Enrolled in a college or university for the fall term as a full-time student.
Earned a GPA of 3.00 or greater.
Must be a U.S. citizen, U.S. National or permanent resident of the United States.
Have an interest in research and in learning about the MSOE REU Site topics.
No experience in Space Systems Technology research is required.
Required Application Materials
One-page resume
One-page statement indicating your interest in
Space Systems Technology
and
undergraduate research
.
One-page statement describing how your
background, skills, and goals align with the REU program
. Please also include brief information about how you found out about the MSOE REU program.
One letter of reference (preferably from a previous or current faculty member)
Your university transcript (include transcripts from each university you have attended): unofficial transcripts are acceptable for applying.
Application materials must be received by the specified due date (Currently Pending NSF Support). They should be sent via email as
one PDF package
. Reference letters can also be e-mailed directly to the PI. Only complete applications will be reviewed.
Submit Your Application
Send your application materials by email to:
Dr. Brian Slaboch
Milwaukee School of Engineering
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee WI 53202
Questions? Contact
Dr. Slaboch
.
Historical REU Projects
REU 2023 Oral Research Presentations →
2023 REU Projects
Lap Shear Testing of Solvent-Welded Additively Manufactured Materials
Studies on Diclofenac and its Metabolism
Green Synthesis of Gold-Palladium Nanoparticles Using Upland Cress: Synthesis and Characterization
Synthesis and Testing of a Nanobead Sunscreen from Kaempferia galanga rhizomes, a Green Chemistry Approach
Isostatic Pressure Testing of Fused Deposition Modeling Materials
Design of Pectin-based Microspheres for Targeted Pulmonary Drug Delivery
Investigation on the Effect of Photo-dose Parameters on Mechanical Properties of Photopolymer Resin
Challenges in Post-Processing of Fused-Deposition Modeled Parts
Leveraging Machine Learning in the Design of Novel Ionic Liquids
REU 2022 Oral Research Presentations →
2022 REU Projects
Ethyl Cinnamate Nanobead Sunscreen Characterization Using Mouse Skin NIH/3T3 Fibroblast Cells
Green Synthesis of Metallic Nanoparticles using American Ginseng and Upland Cress
Investigation of Blister Formation in Post-Processing of Additively Manufactured Parts
Diclofenac Cytotoxicity in 2- and 3-D Rat Hepatocytes
Biomedical Applications of Pectin Microspheres
A Realistic Brain Phantom for Advanced Neuroimaging Quality Assurance
Medical Applications of Additive Manufacturing: Anatomical Modeling
Material Development – Attaining New Properties with Filled Polymers
Methods of Creating Fiber-based Brain Phantom for Diffusion Tensor MRI
REU 2021 Oral Research Presentations →
2021 REU Projects
Manufacture of a Head Phantom for MRI Machine Calibration
Creation of Three-dimensional Pedagogical Models of Genetic Mutations
Biosynthesis of Gold Nanoparticles Using Upland Cress: Process Optimization and Characterization
Synthesis of a Nano-bead Sunscreen and Testing its Efficacy
Creation of Three-dimensional Pedagogical Models of Genetic Mutations
Development of Pectin Microspheres as a Novel Component of Bioink
Characterization of Additively Manufactured Metals from ADDere Printing
Additive-Subtractive Hybrid Manufacturing Machine (ASHMM) Software Toolchain
Additive-Subtractive Hybrid Manufacturing
REU Advisors →
1 / 3
REU 2021 participants
2 / 3
Executive VP of Academics, Dr. Baumgartner, conversing with Efrem Dana at the Poster Presentation.
3 / 3
Andrew Gray of Trinity University wins the Marsha Watson Excellence in Communication Award.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo