BSN-ASD Common Questions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second-Degree Track
BSN-ASD Common Questions
Common Questions About the BSN-ASD Program
Below are frequently asked questions regarding the application & admission process and general questions about the BSN-ASD program.
How well do MSOE students do on the NCLEX exam?
MSOE graduates have a strong record of success on the NCLEX exam. Since the start of the BSN - ASD program in 2013, the NCLEX pass rate for students in the BSN - ASD program ranges from 96% to 100%.
Is there a deadline for applications?
No
. Applicants are accepted until we reach out cohort limit. We admit students twice per year - August/September and January.
What qualifications and pre-requisites do I need?
Please see criteria on
MSOE Transfer Student
.
Do I need to have all the prerequisite courses completed before I apply?
No
. However,
ALL
courses must be completed before you start in BSN-ASD nursing program. In addition, all official transcripts need to be submitted to MSOE. Confirmation of completion of all prerequisite courses occurs prior to the start of the program.
May I take prerequisite courses at MSOE?
Yes
. This may be a good idea, as it will help you learn about MSOE and its support services and enhance your connections with other students.
Can I receive credit for College Level Examination Program (CLEP) courses?
Yes
. The following courses are granted if a score of 60 or more is achieved:
Human Growth and Development for PSY 3003: Developmental Psychology
College Mathematics or College Algebra*
Precalculus (with Trigonometry): MTH 1080
Calculus: MTH 1110
*Will meet the prerequisite for a college level math course, however college credit is not granted.
Is an interview required?
No
if first degree GPA is greater than a 3.0,
Yes
if first GPA is 2.7 to less than 3.0. Applicants will be contacted to schedule an interview. All applicants are welcome to meet with the program coordinator to hear more about the program. This is an opportunity for us to meet you and hear about your interest in nursing. It is also a time for you to learn about our program and tour our facilities.
Is an accelerated-second degree BSN program right for me?
Before you decide to apply for the program, take into consideration your financial situation, career goals, family responsibilities, and your ability to become a full-time college student again. Keep in mind the BSN-ASD program is very intense. However, as someone who earned a BS/BA degree, you are able to progress through the program at a faster pace because you are starting the program with a skill set that already incorporates writing, critical thinking, analysis, and time management from your first degree. Time management skills will be paramount to your academic success over the next 16 months.
How long will it take to finish?
This program will run over four consecutive, year-round semesters (including summer), taking 16 months of full-time (14-17 credits per semester) courses to complete.
Will I be able to work while attending this program?
We advise against this. Once you are admitted, you need to plan on this program taking all of your time and attention. The most common reason for failure from the nursing program is over-commitment of students (jobs and family obligations, long commutes, etc.) and personal health problems.
How many hours per week can I expect to be in class and clinical?
10-15 hours per week in class
15-18 hours per week in labs or clinical
2 to 3 hours per lecture hour per week on reading, studying, and course assignments
Are there other courses I may get credit for?
Possibly
. In the BSN-ASD program students take a nursing evidence-based practice/research course. If students had a prior research course, it can be evaluated for substitution for the nursing evidence-based practice course provided there is at least an 80% match. This evaluation can be completed after you start the program.
What makes MSOE School of Nursing distinctive?
State-of-the-art experiential simulation complex
A critical care course taken by all students
Opportunity for interprofessional education with students from the Medical College of WI
Variety of clinical experiences that include sub-acute rehabilitation, medical/surgical, mental health, critical care (adult and neonatal), children’s hospital, community agencies, and school systems
Capstone project that includes a one-on-one preceptorship with a professional nurse and a data-driven evidence-based leadership project
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Havilah Normington, DNP, RN, APNP
MSOE Associate Professor & Accelerated Second Degree (ASD) Program Coordinator
(414) 277-2685
normington@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo