Online Machine Learning Program FAQs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Online Graduate Programs
Online Machine Learning Programs
Online Machine Learning Program FAQs
Online Machine Learning Program FAQs
Online Master's in Machine Learning Program FAQs
What is an Online Master's in Machine Learning?
The Online Master's in Machine Learning is a 32-credit graduate program that gives you the opportunity to develop advanced skills in machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. The online master’s program focuses on the application of machine learning to industrial problems and the development and deployment of machine learning-based products.
What is does an "online" program mean at MSOE?
Classes in the Master's of Machine Learning program are fully online but meet synchronously. Students will attend a live lecture over Microsoft TEAMS twice a week for each class. These online meetings will include lectures lead by experienced faculty as well as dedicated time to work on projects. While the program is fully online,
students have access to all on-campus resources
. These resources include but are not limited to
Career Connections Center
, Library,
Career Fair
,
Kern Athletic Center
, etc. Students who live local to campus may even stop by their professors office for meetings if they desire!
Are scholarship available?
Yes, limited scholarships are available for qualified students. Admitted students are automatically considered for the scholarship upon acceptance, no additional scholarship application is required.
What is the difference between the Master's in Machine Learning and graduate certificate in Applied ML?
The Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning is an accelerated pathway to learning machine learning and AI technologies and is focused on application to problem solve and move business solutions forward. The Online M.S. in Machine Learning takes this further by applying theory to the application of AI and machine learning technologies. You will be trained to deploy AI and machine learning tools on products, how to create the systems and the infrastructure for your solutions.
You have the opportunity to apply credits earned in the online certificate program toward the online master’s program, giving you the flexibility to decide on how you would like to pursue your education in machine learning.
What are the prerequisites for the
Master's in Machine Learning
?
In order to be eligible for the Master's in Machine Learning, you must have:
A technical bachelor's degree
Programming experience with an object-oriented language—one year of college course work or equivalent minimum
At least one year of differential and integral calculus is required. Multivariable calculus or linear algebra is preferred
What skills will I gain from the Online Master's in Machine Learning program?
Upon completion of the online Master of Science in Machine Learning, you will be able to:
Address competing ethical and professional concerns as you develop machine learning solutions
Analyze complex problems involving advanced applications of machine learning and data science
Design solutions that meet relevant business, technical and ethical standards
Apply a rigorous, scientific approach to make informed judgements—this includes forming research questions, generating hypotheses, designing and executing experiments and evaluating results
Evaluate and use state-of-the-art software and parallel computing hardware in the design and implementation of projects
Describe solutions and their implications to both technical and non-technical audiences
Deploy production-quality solutions that involve best-practice machine learning and data science techniques
What career opportunities are available to Online Master's in Machine Learning graduates?
Earning your master’s in machine learning can open the door to leadership opportunities within organizations applying machine learning technologies to drive business solutions. You will be well positioned to function as the lead architect on complex projects involving machine learning and data science. Job titles related to earning this degree include, but are not limited to, artificial intelligence specialist/developer, machine learning engineer, data science specialist, machine learning researcher and machine learning specialist.
Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning FAQs
What is an Online Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning?
The graduate certificate in AI and machine learning, officially titled “Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning” at MSOE, is a two-semester, two-course program designed to give you applicable skills in AI and machine learning domains. This program provides a firm foundation in data science, machine learning, deep learning and AI with an emphasis on applications.
What will I learn in the Online Applied Machine Learning Graduate Certificate Program?
Through two courses—AI Tools and Paradigms and Applied Machine Learning—you will learn to design algorithms and software that processes data, makes predictions and helps make decisions. You will learn to synthesize solutions in the artificial intelligence and machine learning domains. The skills you gain through the curriculum are further developed by projects that you can relate to your current work.
What are the prerequisites for the Machine Learning Graduate Certificate?
In order to be eligible for the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning, you must have:
A technical bachelor's degree
Programming experience with an object-oriented language—one year of college course work or equivalent minimum
At least one year of differential and integral calculus is required. Multivariable calculus or linear algebra is preferred
What skills will I gain from the Online Machine Learning Graduate Certificate?
Upon completion of this program, you will be able to:
Create visualizations and perform statistical analyses that effectively support data-driven decision making
Communicate with non-technical audiences, sharing results and actionable insights
Identify appropriate modeling techniques and develop solutions that meet requirements from resource-constrained embedded systems up to large-scale web services with millions of users
Develop and evaluate new predictive models using deep learning and other cutting-edge approaches
Improve model prediction performance with problem-solving strategies and techniques
Apply machine learning to diverse data types
Get a Sneak Peek of a Machine Learning Class!
Want an inside look at one of the online machine learning classes offered at MSOE? Just complete a short form, and you'll received a video overview led by program director and assistant professor, Dr. RJ Nowling.
Get a sneak peek
Inquiry Form
Earn your online master's degree or certificate online with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions will be in touch and  provided a program brochure.
Fill out inquiry form
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Dr. RJ Nowling
Associate Professor/Program Director
(414) 277-7318
nowling@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo