How We Teach | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
How We Teach
Giant lecture halls might work for other colleges, but that’s not MSOE’s style. This is what you’ll find instead.
In MSOE’s classrooms and labs, industry-experienced professors help our students gain the robust experience and background for them to succeed after they graduate. With an average of 20 students per class and only 11 per lab, students receive individual attention from professors. MSOE’s size allows students and faculty to build meaningful connections that foster the unique learning environment at MSOE.
Learning by Doing
There’s a reason why we have more labs than classrooms. We’ve always believed students learn best (and have more fun) by getting their hands dirty and putting theory into practice. MSOE students spend hundreds of hours in our industry-standard labs, and that practical, hands-on experience will give you a definite edge in the workplace.
Deep Connections Between Professors and Students
Your average class will be 20 students, and your average lab will include just 11 students. That intimate learning environment will allow your professors to really get to know you. Expect more than a few to become mentors and perhaps lifelong connections.
Immediate Immersion Into Your Major
You won’t have to wait to explore your passion. You’ll dive into your major-specific classes freshman year, giving you a head start on internships and your career.
Close Industry Integration
MSOE is a trusted partner for leading Wisconsin companies, including Harley-Davidson, Kohler, Snap-on and more. We work together on the latest industry research and innovations, and more than 300 top companies come to recruit our students for internships and jobs at MSOE’s Career Fairs.
Real-World Learning
At MSOE, we challenge our students on day one with a hands-on academic experience that delivers high value. With challenge, comes growth. Students work through real-world problems side-by-side with faculty who are proven leaders in their fields. Graduates are ready to solve complex problems on their first day of work because they’ve been solving them since their first day at MSOE.
Honors Program
For students who want more of a challenge, MSOE’s honors curriculum encourages independent and collaborative learning through project work, professional presentations and interaction with regional leaders.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo