Academics | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Academics
Don’t be fooled by the “E” in our name. Although we got our start training engineers — and are still home to one of the top engineering programs in the nation — there’s a lot more to MSOE than you might expect.
We offer 20 undergraduate programs in engineering, business, nursing and math, plus minors and certificates ranging from Spanish to marketing to user experience. If you’re ready for the next step in your academic journey, check out our nine graduate programs or one of our graduate certificates.
Whether you dream of designing and building life-saving medical equipment or starting your own company, an MSOE degree will give you the practical tools you need to launch a rewarding career.
Engineering and Computer Science
MSOE offers it all: state-of-the-art laboratories, one-on-one interaction with expert faculty, direct admission to your major, more than a dozen engineering and computer-related majors to choose from and high starting salaries.
Business
Graduates of the Rader School of Business stand out thanks to our emphasis on entrepreneurship, leadership and technology, plus real-world experience gained through internships and innovative laboratories.
Mathematics
Prepare for the high-demand field of actuarial science with a program that has been ranked among the very best in the nation.
Nursing
Highly skilled, compassionate and tech-savvy — that’s what makes MSOE nurses so sought-after.
Humanities, Social Science & Communication
This department will enrich your education with a variety of courses in the humanities, social sciences, English, communication and engineering graphics.
Academic Certificates
MSOE offers a growing list of academic certificates to further your education and career.
Academic Minors
Choose a minor to enhance your degree and complement your career goals.
Study Abroad
Want two degrees for the price of one? Spend your junior year in Germany and receive a degree from the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, or choose shorter study abroad options in Italy, France, India and other countries.
Labs & Research
The knowledge you’ll gain in our advanced, industry-standard laboratories is the cornerstone of an MSOE education, and you can contribute to cutting-edge developments for industry partners like Harley-Davidson, Kohler, Snap-on and more.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Career Outcomes Rate
96%
Class of 2024-25
U.S. News & World Report
2nd
Best University in the Midwest, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
#9
Undergraduate Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
4th
Best Value University in the Midwest, 2026
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo