Labs and Research | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Leading Labs and Research
Ready to test a new theory or create the next big idea? MSOE’s industry-standard laboratories and state-of-the-art research facilities are waiting for you.
Applied Technology
The Applied Technology Center
TM
(ATC) includes several centers of excellence and undertakes more than 250 company-sponsored research projects every year.
Learn More →
Fluid Power Institute™
The Fluid Power Institute
TM
, part of the ATC, operates a wide variety of hydraulic components under high pressure and flow conditions, allowing for custom, in-depth testing and analysis solutions.
Learn More →
Clinical and Translational Science Institute
MSOE is a proud member of the Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI), an NIH NCATS federally funded consortium of academic and medical organizations in southeastern Wisconsin. Researchers and clinicians with the CTSI can apply to work collaboratively with the support and expertise of MSOE faculty and students who will use deep learning and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms with high performance computing to advance their research.
Learn More →
Undergraduate Research
Through the Research Experience for Undergraduates program, students develop their skills by researching projects that advance state-of-the-art applications in various fields. The Academic Undergraduate Research program allows students to work alongside faculty members in meaningful research while earning credit towards their degree.
Learn More →
State-of-the-Art Labs
Undergraduate students spend hundreds of hours in industry-standard labs such as the Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Laboratory Suite, the Construction Science and Engineering Center, the Johnson Controls Environmental Systems, the Caspian Cyber Security Laboratory, and the Ruehlow Nursing Complex—to name a few.
Nursing Labs →
Engineering Labs →
Business Labs →
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo