Fluid Power Seminars | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Fluid Power Seminars
Get cutting-edge technological development
The Applied Technology Center (ATC) regularly offers seminars that are designed to keep engineers and managers abreast of cutting-edge technological development, current applications and newly developed techniques. While some of these seminars focus on the foundation of fluid power, others explore more advanced sophisticated concepts in a high-tech, applications-oriented environment.
Why choose MSOE for your professional development?
Hands-on approach
Reputable faculty and staff
State-of-the-art facilities
Long-term commitment to professional development
Professional education partnerships with the industry
ATC sponsors public, private and customized seminars to meet your needs.
MSOE offers a number of public seminars and events throughout the year.
The office of Professional Education also conducts private seminars. These seminars can be on-site or in our premises. Seminars may be customized by changing lecture curriculum and/or adding proprietary laboratory exercises. More than 200 individuals a year are educated through tailored on-site programs. Please contact us for more information on private seminar offerings.
The Universal Fluid Power Trainer (UFPT)  is a modular, smart and unique fluid power and motion control training unit. It contains an excellent integration of industrial-graded hardware and built-in software licenses to help teach and demonstrate fluid power technology.
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Fluid Power Education Powers Industry
From the foundations of fluid power to the latest technological advancements, companies turn to MSOE to help their employees stay current or advance their skills.
Read more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo