Nursing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
School of Nursing
Since 1995, the MSOE School of Nursing has been educating students who have the caring attitude and skills that make excellent nurses.
The MSOE Nursing curriculum integrates a strong technology base that will make you a better caregiver. The two track options make an MSOE Nursing degree accessible to many different types of students. The skills learned at MSOE will help make your transition into the Nursing profession a successful one.
Mission
MSOE School of Nursing is the academic institution of choice for those seeking an inclusive community of experiential learners who are dedicated to a wholistic, team-based approach for solving complex health challenges of today and tomorrow.
Vision
The MSOE School of Nursing sets the standard for excellence in preparing nurses who will impact society as expert practitioners, leaders, and scholars.
1 / 4
Become a healthcare hero at MSOE!
2 / 4
MSOE's B.S. in Nursing Degree
3 / 4
Yay for Nurses!
4 / 4
Nursing Lab Class
At MSOE’s School of Nursing (SON) students learn how to provide care with confidence starting day one—students enjoy direct admission to the nursing program and guaranteed placement in the clinical sequence.
Incoming freshman can live alongside like-minded individuals and collaborate with both the School of Nursing and Residence Life to engage in academic support and community-building.
The Anatomy and Physiology JumpStart program will help you develop your skills and gain confidence working on the structured objectives in ALEKS, connect with Anatomy and Physiology faculty and build your MSOE community.
MSOE offers a program for the adult working professional who has already earned a bachelor’s degree in another discipline and is looking to change careers. With this program you will earn a Bachelor of Science in Nursing.
Get to know our distinguished nursing faculty!
Chair, School of Nursing
Dr. Carol Sabel
Academics
03.27.2019
MSOE nursing program ranks #1 in Wisconsin
MSOE’s School of Nursing has a 100% NCLEX pass rate and a 98% first-time pass rate for 2018. MSOE also has been ranked #1 out of 39 schools in the state…
Read More
School of Nursing
(414) 277-7158
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Nursing Living Learning Community Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more about the Nursing Living Learning Community? Fill out the inquiry form to find out more!
Inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo