Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Engineering
Choose from one of our many in-demand engineering degrees to see which one fits your interests and expertise.
Engineers are forward-thinking problem-solvers who shape the world we live in. From adaptive medical devices to innovative computer and electrical technology, engineers not only create the basic infrastructure needed to support civilization today -- they develop the solutions to make an even better world tomorrow.
MSOE offers 12 engineering disciplines across four departments
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management
Diercks School of Advanced Computing
Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Physics and Chemistry
MSOE's undergraduate engineering program is
consistently ranked
among the top in the nation. Graduates from our programs are leaders in their fields, going on to work in the public and private sectors, securing jobs at businesses like Tesla Inc., NVIDIA, Harley-Davidson, and Mortenson Construction - to name a few.  The key to success for MSOE graduates is our focus on experiential learning, which combines theory and practical application. Delve a little deeper and see which of our engineering disciplines sounds like the best fit for you.
MSOE's architectural engineering degree provide you the know-how to build efficient, sustainable structures safely, quickly and within budget through classroom theory and real-world practice in state-of-the-art labs.
Biomedical engineers use engineering principles and methods to create products and services to improve peoples’ lives, such as cardiac pacemakers, CT scanners and artificial hips.
Chemical and biomolecular engineers work at the interface of engineering and molecular biology to solve engineering problems, improve current products and processes and develop new products and processes at the molecular level. Students in MSOE’s program learn about cell engineering, nanotechnology and genomics in advanced laboratories.
Graduates of Civil Engineering learn mathematics, natural science and engineering principles but are also proficient in business, public policy, leadership and team work.
MSOE’s CE program integrates hardware and software, building on the disciplines of electrical engineering and computer science. Graduates have not only the technological know-how and communication skills, but also the leadership skills and business knowledge to move their organizations forward.
Graduates of MSOE’s computer science program will be prepared to write cutting-edge software to solve tomorrow’s problems with a special emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Construction managers are the people who get things done. They make sure that projects—from skyscrapers to stadiums to subdivisions—are built well, on time and on budget.
The cybersecurity systems program integrates science and mathematics with computer science, software engineering, political science and ethics to prepare a computing professional capable of developing and deploying computing systems that consistently maintain confidentiality, integrity and availability.
Contrary to popular belief, the field of electrical engineering is about much more than simply sitting in front of a circuit board. Through their work, electrical engineers make a difference in the world and improve people’s everyday lives.
The AAS-EET to BSEE Transfer Plan at MSOE is designed to allow AAS graduates of electrical engineering technology programs, from colleges with which MSOE holds transfer agreements, to transfer efficiently into the electrical engineering program. This program may also be appropriate for transfer students from other colleges – consult with an academic advisor.
Often described as the “people-oriented” engineering profession, industrial engineering combines your abilities in math, logic and organization with a core understanding of business objectives to streamline operations and conserve resources.
Essential to industrial enterprise, mechanical engineering is versatile and continuously evolving. Mechanical engineers use their knowledge of design, energy and materials to ensure that objects function more efficiently to conserve resources.
Learn how to apply engineering concepts, techniques and methods to develop software systems in one of the first four ABET-accredited software engineering programs in the country.
Get to know our faculty
1 / 7
Chemical and BioMolecular Engineering Lab Class
2 / 7
Biomedical Engineering Lab
3 / 7
Architectural Engineering Class
4 / 7
Computer Engineering Class
5 / 7
Electrical Engineering class
6 / 7
Mechanical Engineering class
7 / 7
Industrial Engineering Lab
Class of 1995
Architectural Engineering
Brett Laureys
Class of 2011
Biomedical Engineering
Ben Hansen
Associate Professor
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Dr. Wujie Zhang
Class of 2018
Civil Engineering
Constantine Moshi
Building a dam
Civil Engineering
Project explores dam feasibility
President, MSOE
Dr. John Y. Walz
Class of 2014
Construction Management
Andrew Hillstrom
Associate Professor
Electrical Engineering
Dr. Cory Prust '01
Class of 1982
Industrial Engineering
Robert Bettinardi
On Top of the World
Mechanical Engineering
SAE Formula Hybrid
Class of 2017
Mechanical Engineering
Sean Ali
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
U.S. News & World Report
#9
Undergraduate Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
6th
Best Undergraduate Civil Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
11th
Best Undergraduate Mechanical Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo