MSN - Leadership and Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Health
Nursing
MSN - Leadership and Management
MSN Nursing Leadership: Manager and Executive
Ready to tackle the complex challenges of healthcare? This program is designed for individuals with a BSN who are ready to take on a leadership role in health care. Gain essential executive business skills and tackle the complexities of modern health care systems with confidence. Foster interprofessional teams to deliver evidence-based, cost effective and holistic care for diverse individuals and populations.
This program offers:
Executive skills and training
Project management
Small classes
Rolling admissions
Eligibility to sit for AONL certification: Certified Nurse Manager and Leader (CNML), Certified Executive Nursing Practice (CENP)
Career options: traditional health care organizations, community non-profit organizations, and international health care
15 months, 37 credits, 505 practicum hours, assistance in obtaining practicum
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our MSN in Leadership and Management? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Why Obtain a Nursing Degree in Leadership and Management at MSOE?
This program equips nurses with essential executive business skills and tackle the complexities of modern health care systems with confidence. This unique program was developed in partnership with the Rader School of Business to allow you to gain high-level management and executive theory while maintaining a strong foundation in patient care.
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (http://www.ccneaccreditation.org) and the American Holistic Nurse Credentialing Corporation (AHNCC).
Admission Requirements
Complete the free application
here.
Submit official post-secondary transcripts.
Bachelor of Science in Nursing from an accredited university is required.
Current unrestricted RN license.
A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be done on all students entering the program.
Read more about MSOE’s MSN Leadership: Manager and Executive program and view the curriculum topics and School of Nursing contacts.
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
M.S. in Nursing Admission Requirements
Curious about the admission criteria needed to enter our MSN program?
Learn more
Graduate Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more? Fill out the graduate inquiry form and admissions will be in touch!
Inquiry Form
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Apply through NursingCAS and admissions will be in touch soon!
Apply Now
2026 Best Online Nursing Programs
M.S. in Nursing named to Best Online Programs by U.S. News and World Report
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo