Probation Status—Additional Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Registrar
Policy for Probation and Suspension
Probation Status—Additional Information
Probation Status—Additional Information
Important information you should know about probation status at MSOE.
What does it mean to be on academic probation?
Probation is an academic warning.   Both a cumulative GPA and a cumulative major GPA of 2.00 or above are required for graduation.  If, after the fall semester, your cumulative or cumulative major GPA (after earning 9 credits of major classes) is below a 2.00, you will be on academic probation.
This semester of probation is a good time to work on resolving any issues that are impeding your academic success to ensure you will be more successful in future terms.
Please note: Academic probation and
financial aid warning
are two separate policies with different criteria and timelines.
What does the probation status mean for me?
Expected Advisor Meeting
You are expected to meet with your academic advisor by Friday of week 4 to discuss your academic difficulties.  Please contact your advisor to set up an appointment.
Reflection Document
After the fall semester, if you are on academic probation, you will have the opportunity to write a letter reflecting on your academic difficulties.  This is not an appeal letter and the committee will not respond to it.   This letter is not required, but failure to submit the letter could affect future appeal decisions.  The reflection letter should address these questions:
What do you believe are the factors that negatively affect your success at MSOE?
What is your plan to address these factors?
What student success and wellness resources are you currently utilizing?
What are three specific action items that you commit to addressing in the spring semester?
Raider Success Courses
Freshmen and sophomore students who have a term, major or cumulative GPA below a 2.00 are strongly encouraged to register for the RCAS Foundations of Student Success course.
RSC 0101 - Foundations of Student Success
1
lecture hours
0
lab hours
1
credits
Course Description
In this course, students will work to achieve their goal grades through strategy utilization and individual goal setting. Instructors teach core components of learning and development to optimize a student’s approach to time management, organization, study habits and prioritization. Students will work with one another to identify, implement, and assess strategies to leverage academic success. (prereq: none)
Course Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:
Develop and apply the learning strategies necessary for academic success
View learning as a process that can be planned and monitored
Learn to develop accountability to self and others for their learning process
Recognize the academic and non-academic reasons that can impede their progress
Know what supports are available to aid in their academic success
Extracurricular Activities
All full- and part-time undergraduate and graduate students are eligible for active membership in student organizations.  A student with less than a 2.00 cumulative GPA may not have officer-level responsibilities in any student organization or extracurricular activity, serve as a student representative on any institutional committee or represent the university as a member of any MSOE athletic team.  It is the student’s responsibility to inform the organization of ineligibility and the organization’s responsibility to inform the Student Activities staff.  In addition, academic eligibility will be reviewed periodically by the Student Activities staff for student organizations and is reviewed regularly by the Registrar’s Office and the Athletic Department for intercollegiate athletics.
Registrar's Office
Campus Center
(414) 277-7215
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo