Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturin | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
Engineering
Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing
Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing
The Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing is designed for professionals interested in developing a specialization in the design and analysis of components and systems manufacturing through modern additive manufacturing techniques.   After completion of the program, students will be able to understand the technical principles, economic benefits and challenges, and workflows for AM of polymers, composites, and metals. In addition, students will have the flexibility to select courses in their area of interest across such topics as: mechanics of additively manufactured and anisotropic materials, design for additive manufacturing, and composite manufacturing.
Upon completion of the certificate program, students will be able to:
Analyze the benefits and drawbacks of every major additive manufacturing technology.
Design and develop additively manufactured parts and systems.
Contrast the economic benefits and drawbacks of systems manufactured using additive techniques against those made using traditional methods.
MSOE students interested in this certificate should have junior standing (60-89 credits) and be enrolled in our Mechanical Engineering or Industrial Engineering program and be in good academic standing with a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
External applicants should have a bachelor's degree with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher.
*
= required field
Name
*
First
Last
MSOE Email Address
*
Student ID Number
*
Current undergraduate program
*
Mechanical Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Current Academic Standing
*
Junior
Other
If you chose "other" for current academic standing, please explain. If you chose junior, simply put "NA" *
*
Who is your undergraduate/graduate academic advisor?
*
Spam Prevention
*
Please help us prevent spam by using the reCAPTCHA below.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo