Get Involved | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Servant-Leadership
Get Involved
Get Involved in Servant-Leadership
"The servant-leader is servant first… It begins with the natural feeling that one wants to serve, to serve first." - Robert K. Greenleaf.
Are you interested in learning more about servant-leadership? Join us in one or more of the following events/programs:
Monthly Roundtable Discussions
Join us for lunch on the second Thursday
of every month for an informal discussion about servant-leadership. Roundtables are open to all faculty, staff, students and community partners. No previous experience necessary.
Register
here
or
email servantleadership@msoe.edu
with any questions.
Conversations with Chair of Servant-Leadership
Gene Wright is committed to helping students and all members of the MSOE community grow as servant-leaders. He is available for individual and small group discussions throughout the year. If you would like to arrange a time to meet and learn more about servant-leadership,
email servantleadership@msoe.edu
.
Leadership Development Program
Students interested in developing as servant-leaders are encouraged to consider applying for our
CREATE Student Fellow
program. This program is designed to help students support their peers while they learn and apply the tenets of servant-leadership.
Have an idea you want to share?
We are always interested in growing the ways that servant-leadership at MSOE can serve our students. If you have ideas to expand or increase the impact of this program, please
reach out to servantleadership@msoe.edu
. We want to hear from you!
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo