Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Post-Master's Certificate | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Post-Master's Certificate
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Post-Master's Certificate
The MSN Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate (MSN-PMHNP) has been developed for the Advanced Practice Nurse (APN) who has an interest in providing holistic care to clients who have a mental or behavioral health challenge. Students will integrate best practice in the care of clients, from prescribing to the implementation of psychotherapies in the treatment plan.
The program is designed for students who are practicing as an APN or have an MSN. It meets CCNE criteria for accreditation and the NONPF competencies. Students will complete a total of 600 practicum hours in the program and will complete the program in 15 months if full-time status is maintained.
Students who complete the degree are eligible for the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) national certification examination as a PMHNP.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Nursing degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online
25 credits, 600 practicum hours
MSN transcripts
Proof of unrestricted RN license
Syllabus for the following courses: Advanced Pathophysiology, Advanced Health Assessment, and Advanced Pharmacology
Curriculum Format
Blended Internet Delivery
Blended courses meet synchronously and asynchronously throughout the semester. (Dates are indicated in the course schedule). NUR7220 APRN Psychiatric Mental Health 3: Care of Families and Groups will each have a 3-day immersion, which will require travel and attendance of activities on campus; students will be informed of the dates at the time the schedule is posted.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or application portal.
Official MSN transcripts
Proof of unrestricted RN license.
Syllabi for Advanced Pathophysiology, Advanced Pharmacology, Advanced Assessment courses.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org
) and have full approval of the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services
(http://dsps.wi.gov)
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008.
Below is an indication of whether the
M.S. in Nursing Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, GU, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WI, WV, WY
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
None
Additional requirements may be necessary in the following states:
ND, NY, PA, OH, KY, NM
Get to know our distinguished nursing faculty!
A helpful list of frequently asked questions about MSOE's MSN program.
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more? Fill out the graduate inquiry form and admissions will be in touch!
Inquiry Form
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Submit an application through NursingCAS and admissions will be in touch soon!
Apply Now
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo