Construction Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Construction Management
Construction Management
Learn how to direct building construction projects from conception until completion through MSOE’s degree in construction management. The core curriculum includes construction materials and methods, estimating, scheduling, project management and more.
One of three programs in MSOE's CAECM Department, our construction management degree melds business, engineering, communication and science to create professionals who facilitate a build - they are the conductors in the construction symphony. Our CM graduates are leaders in the board room and on the job site; our 100% placement rate says it all.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our construction management degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
The degree is for students who wish to become nonresidential building construction project professionals. The rigorous program melds instruction about business administration, basic scientific and engineering principles, and construction science, building information modeling (BIM), and project management techniques to graduate professionals who are savvy about current industry practices and educated for a lifetime of learning in this challenging and rewarding career.
You may want to consider CM if you …
Understand organizational leadership imperatives
Work effectively with other people, but are independently resourceful
Are able to prioritize and complete multiple, time-constrained requirements effectively
Apply mathematics and science to enhance analysis and decision making
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Accreditation
The Construction Management (BS) program is accredited by the Applied and Natural Science Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Construction Management.
Read more about MSOE's Construction Management undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024-25 graduates from our construction management program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished CAECM faculty!
Class of 2014
Construction Management
Andrew Hillstrom
Class of 2006
Construction Management
Matthew Tadisch
Class of 2015
Construction Management
Sami Wallace
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. DeAnna Leitzke
Program Director
(414) 277-2701
leitzke@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo