B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second-Degree Track | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second-Degree Track
B.S. in Nursing – Accelerated Second-Degree Track
This degree is designed for individuals who already have a bachelor’s degree but want to change careers.
The BSN-ASD is a compressed, year-round curriculum designed to enable students to enter the workforce as professional nurses in approximately 16 months, assuming the student has met all of the prerequisites. We admit twice a year in August/September and in January.
Review the
list of prerequisite courses
for the program.
1 / 2
The B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second-Degree Track can be completed in just 16 months!
2 / 2
Learn more about the B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second-Degree Track in this webinar from Havilah Normington-Gomes, associate professor and program coordinator.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our accelerated second-degree nursing track? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Following graduation, our nursing graduates are highly sought after by health care organizations. The variety of clinical opportunities, the number of clinical hours (≈ 660 hours) and lab hours (≈ 180 hours), plus participation in at least 15 simulations prepares students to transition to the role of the professional nurse.
You may want to consider NU if you …
Enjoy helping others and want to improve peoples’ lives
Are able to work well in a team environment
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Are able to prioritize and complete multiple, time-constrained requirements effectively
Are detail oriented
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org
) and have full approval of the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services
(http://dsps.wi.gov)
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008. Below is an indication of whether the
B.S. in Nursing - Accelerated Second Degree
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
WI, AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CT, DE, FL, GA, GU, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WV, WY
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
CO, DC, HI, KY
Helpful information to use when deciding if the MSOE BSN-ASD program is right for you.
Kayla McQuestion '24, BSN-ASD
A helpful list of frequently asked questions about MSOE's BSN-ASD program.
Read more about MSOE's B.S. in Nursing – Accelerated Second-Degree Track undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of our 2024–25 graduates from the nursing program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished nursing faculty!
The Ruehlow Nursing Complex is a technology-rich experiential learning and simulation center that trains the nurses of tomorrow.
Academics
05.17.2019
Nursing students work together to solve puzzles, treat patients, and “Escape the Lab”
MSOE brought the popular “Escape Room” trend to the classroom with “Escape the Lab,” a fun way for students to prepare for exams by racing against the…
Read More
Academics
05.03.2019
MSOE nursing program ranks No. 1 in Wisconsin—again
Recent graduates of MSOE’s School of Nursing once again proved their nursing prowess with a 100% NCLEX pass rate—and they all passed the exam on their…
Read More
Academics
03.27.2019
MSOE nursing program ranks #1 in Wisconsin
MSOE’s School of Nursing has a 100% NCLEX pass rate and a 98% first-time pass rate for 2018. MSOE also has been ranked #1 out of 39 schools in the state…
Read More
Havilah Normington, DNP, RN, APNP
Associate Professor & Accelerated Second Degree (ASD) Program Coordinator
(414) 277-2685
normington@msoe.edu
Apply to MSOE
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
School of Nursing
(414) 277-7158
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo