Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Health
Nursing
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Track
Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program
In MSOE’s PMHNP program, students learn how to incorporate high quality holistic care, best practice and therapeutic modalities when caring for the mental and behavioral health needs of clients in a variety of practice environments.
The PMHNP program offers two tracks: the MSN PMHNP and a post-Master's PMHNP certificate. The MSN track is designed for the BSN looking to specialize in advanced practice psychiatric nursing. The post-Master's certificate is designed for the RN who already holds an M.S. in Nursing.
Courses are offered in a blended format and
meet synchronously and asynchronously throughout the semester in addition to two immersions throughout the program.
With the use of technology, simulation, innovation and direct care, the program will provide the knowledge and skills for practice in a variety of settings including inpatient facilities, community clinics, independent practice and telehealth. Students will learn to function autonomously as innovators, entrepreneurs and creative problem-solvers.
This program offers:
Advanced holistic nursing skills and knowledge
Small classes
Synchronous online courses convenient for working professionals
Rolling admissions
Eligibility to sit for ANCC PMHNP certification and AHNCC holistic nursing certification
21 months, 46 credits, 630 practicum hours
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our Post-Master’s PMHNP Certificate program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Why Obtain Your PMHNP Education at MSOE?
MSOE's PMHNP program offers a unique, holistic approach to psychiatric and mental health care. In addition to advanced practice psychiatric education, students develop robust knowledge and skills in holistic nursing care, including psychotherapy and complementary and alternative approaches.
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (http://www.ccneaccreditation.org).
The PMHNP program is endorsed by the American Holistic Nurses Credentialing Corporation (AHNCC). Our curriculum is grounded in holistic nursing philosophy, theory, and concepts consistent with the AHNA Scope and Standards of Holistic Nursing Practice.
MSN Requirements
Complete the free application
here.
Submit official post-secondary transcripts.
Bachelor of Science in Nursing from an accredited university is required.
Current unrestricted RN license.
A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be done on all students entering the program.
Post-Certification Requirements
Complete an application
here.
Submit official graduate transcripts.
Master of Science in Nursing from an accredited university.
Current unrestricted RN license.
Confirmation of Advanced Pathophysiology, Advanced Pharmacology, Advanced Assessment within the past 7 years.
A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be done on all students entering the program.
Read more about MSOE’s MSN-PMHNP Certificate program and view the curriculum.
Read more about MSOE’s PMHNP Post-Master’s Certificate program and view the curriculum.
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
M.S. in Nursing Admission Requirements
Curious about the admission criteria needed to enter our MSN program?
Learn more
Graduate Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more? Fill out the graduate inquiry form and admissions will be in touch!
Inquiry Form
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Apply through NursingCAS and admissions will be in touch soon!
Apply Now
2026 Best Online Nursing Programs
M.S. in Nursing named to Best Online Programs by U.S. News and World Report
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo