Fluid Power Industrial Consortium (FPIC) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Engineering
Fluid Power Industrial Consortium (FPIC)
Fluid Power Industrial Consortium (FPIC)
The FPIC is a partnership with the
National Fluid Power Association
and other stakeholders in the fluid power industry.  The FPIC delivers quarterly webinars providing market-ready technologies and actionable solutions to help overcome challenges and drive success in the fluid power industry.
How Your Company Benefits:
Access to the latest technology advances in fluid power vetted for no-sales pitch presented by industry professionals
Association and networking with diverse industry representatives
Interaction with MSOE’s Fluid Power Institute Technical Staff including engineers, researchers, undergraduate and graduate students
Presentations are archived on a secure website for members to review at their convenience
Professional Development Hours (PDH’s) or Continuing Education Units (CEU’s) awarded to participants upon request
FPIC's member companies
include those that design and manufacture fluid power components and systems, system integrators, OEM’s, users and other organizations.  Seminar topics are aligned  with customer drivers from
NFPA’s Fluid Power Technology and Manufacturing Roadmaps
as well as topics recommended by seminar participants.
NFPA Fluid Power Technology Roadmap Customer Drivers:
Increased availability and up-time
Increased productivity and performance
Autonomous function and operation
Compliance with regulations
Lower total cost of ownership
On-time delivery of the machine
Easier and more predictable maintenance
Increased energy efficiency and power density
There is no webinar registration fee for FPIC and NFPA Members.
Seminar Topics:
Best practices in leak prevention
Reducing noise, harshness and vibration in fluid power equipment
Advanced coatings and hydraulic fluid technologies
Micro-machining, batch-free heat treating, additive and hybrid manufacturing
Advanced materials, composites, engineered plastics and sintered metals
Robotics, advanced automation, smart systems, in-process sensing, feedback, and control
Electrification IoT, AI software and smart tools for component and system design, simulation and optimization
Future Dates:
Tuesday, December 16, 2025
FPIC Member Feedback
“
Excellent shared experiences in the current environment we find ourselves
.”
“
I liked the panel discussion. It created a broad discussion of topics more relevant to a larger audience
.”
“
Great info on high volume automation in real applications
.”
“
Good presentations from all presenters. Good subject coverage and explanation given. Look forward to many more.
”
“
The presenters were relevant, engaging and overall offered great content.
”
For more information regarding the FPIC or to join the consortium, please contact:
Paul Michael
Director, Fluid Power Institute
michael@msoe.edu
|
(414) 277-2238
NFPA Members Contact:
Eric Lanke
President/CEO
National Fluid Power Association
elanke@nfpa.com
|
(414) 778-3351
Paul Michael
Director of Fluid Power Institute
(414) 277-2238
michael@msoe.edu
Schedule and Registration for the December 16 FPIC Program
Don't miss out on this opportunity to learn more about best practices for hydraulic leak prevention. Register today!
December 16 Program Schedule
Register
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo