Self-Paced A.I./Machine Learning Offerings | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
A.I. / Machine Learning
Self-Paced A.I./Machine Learning Offerings
Self-Paced A.I./Machine Learning Offerings
Explore MSOE's self-paced offerings focused on A.I. and machine learning today, and expand your expertise in an important and growing area.
A.I. Professional Learning Series
The CPE is excited to announce our new
A.I. Professional Learning Series
, which consists of six 4-hour online self-paced workshops exploring how A.I. can be applied in customer service, HR, sales and marketing, accounting and finance, IT operations, and cybersecurity. Each workshop costs $99 and can be completed anytime between February 16 and April 30, 2026. Participants are eligible to earn a digital badge, which they can then post on their LinkedIn profiles, at the end of each workshop.
This program was developed, promoted, and delivered through a collaborative partnership between the CPE, the MKE Tech Hub Coalition, and Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC), with funding provided by HERA (Higher Education Regional Alliance) and the US Department of Education Microcredential Grant Project.*
* HERA Microcredential Grant funding provided by US Department of Education: Award P116Z24014917
A.I. Applications for Human Resource Management
A.I. Applications for Sales and Marketing
A.I. Applications for Cybersecurity Professionals
A.I. Applications for Accounting and Finance
A.I. Applications for Customer Success
A.I. Applications for IT Operations
Self-Paced A.I./Machine Learning Offerings
Expand your A.I. / Machine Learning foundational knowledge with these introductory self-paced offerings.
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Introduction to Machine Learning
Center for Professional Education
(414) 277-7530
cpe@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo