Electrical Engineering AAS-EET to BSEE Transfer Plan | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering AAS-EET to BSEE Transfer Plan
Electrical Engineering AAS-EET to BSEE Transfer Track
This track enables AAS graduates of electrical engineering technology programs to transfer efficiently into MSOE’s electrical engineering program.
This track gives AAS-EET graduates the opportunity to earn a BSEE degree and advance to engineering positions in industry. It places a strong emphasis on design, applications and experienced-based learning
.
Participating institutions include:
College of Lake County
Fox Valley Technical College (FVTC)
Gateway Technical College
Madison College
Milwaukee Area Technical College (MATC)
Northeast Wisconsin Technical College (NWTC)
Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC)
Western Technical College
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our electrical engineering AAS-EET to BSEE transfer track? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Graduates with this degree have accepted a wide variety of positions within the industry, including:
Applications Engineer
Design
Management
Field Engineer
Manufacturing
Project Management
Research and Development
System Integration Development
Technical Marketing
Accreditation
This program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Electrical, Computer, Communications, Telecommunication(s)  and Similarly Named Engineering Programs.
SC Johnson STEM Scholars Pathway
Gateway Technical College and MSOE SC Johnson STEM Scholars Pathway
Thanks to a generous donation from SC Johnson, the STEM Scholars Pathway encourages students to pursue in-demand STEM related degrees while receiving some financial support. High school seniors apply for this program to complete their 2-year degree with our partner Gateway Technical College and then finish their 4-year degree at MSOE in either Electrical Engineering or BBA-Management Information Systems. STEM Scholar students will receive a $7,500 scholarship each year at Gateway Technical College and then will continue to receive the $7,500 scholarship for their 2 final years at MSOE. This scholarship will then be matched by MSOE.
Eligible Gateway Tech programs: Electrical Engineering Technology, IT-Cybersecurity Specialist, IT-Data Analytics Specialist, IT-Network Specialist, IT-Software Developer, IT-Web Software Developer
Program applicants must:
Be female, or an underrepresented student of color, or a low-income student
Be a graduating senior attending a Racine County High school and residing within the Racine Unified School District
Have a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher at the time of application
Be pursuing a STEM related degree in field listed above
Read more about MSOE's Electrical Engineering AAS-EET to BSEE Transfer Track undergraduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished EECS faculty!
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Robert Strangeway
Adjunct Professor
(414) 277-7311
strangew@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo