Software Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Software Engineering
Software Engineering
Software engineering applies engineering concepts, techniques and methods to the development of software systems. The software engineering program develops engineering professionals with a mastery of software development theory, practice and process.
Software engineering is based on computer science in the same way other engineering disciplines are based on physical or life sciences. However, it adds an emphasis on issues of requirements, process, design, measurement, analysis and verification, providing a strong foundation in engineering principles and practice as applied to software development.
Software engineering students gain knowledge and skill in all aspects of the software development life cycle, including requirements elicitation and analysis, software architecture, design, construction and verification. They learn to work within and to continuously improve a defined software development process, with the aim of producing high-quality software predictably and efficiently. To provide a basis for this software engineering practice and process, students are grounded in the fundamentals of computer science, including discrete mathematics, data structures, algorithms, computer organization and operating systems.
You may want to consider SE if you …
Enjoy working with software and computer systems
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Are prepared to be a life-long learner to maintain knowledge and skills in the rapidly changing computer industry
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our software engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Hear about the growing influence of AI in our everyday lives with MSOE faculty and student Ethan Hindes in MSOE's podcast, Rethink What's Possible:
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming prominent in more and more industries each day, including health care. Listen to Dr. Sheila Ross, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department chairperson; Dr. John Bukowy, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department assistant professor; and student Ethan Hindes discuss the advancements of AI, its impact on their research on kidneys with the Medical College of Wisconsin, and how Hindes found his way to computer science.
Accreditation
The Software Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Software Engineering.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024–25 graduates from our software engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Read more about MSOE's Software Engineering undergraduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished software engineering faculty!
Learn more about how to collaborate, while avoiding plagiarism, in your software development courses at MSOE with the CSSE computing code of conduct.
Class of 2004
Software Engineering
Sumit Sehgal
Class of 2022
Software Engineering
Kammein Mitchell
Class of 2022
Software Engineering
Elizabeth Ostendorf
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Chris Taylor
Program Director
(414) 277-7339
taylor@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo