Past Experiential Learning Projects | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Past Experiential Learning Projects
Past Experiential Learning Projects
Browse past experiential learning projects and trips.
For many years, MSOE students have been making an impact locally and globally. Browse the following recent real-world projects and experiential learning opportunities that benefit society and the communities where we live and work:
Peace Tree Mural
Blue Lotus Bathhouse
Desk Drive 2020
Handwashing Station
Servant-leadership is an essential component of the
MSOE Mindset
. Therefore, the CREATE Institute works closely with the chair for servant-leadership to incorporate servant-leadership development into programming designed to help our students develop as leaders of character, responsible professionals, passionate learners and value creators. One high-impact practice that we lean into for MSOE Mindset development is project-based experiential learning.
The CREATE Institute is the hub for experiential learning at MSOE. We help faculty bring real-world projects into their courses that help students develop the mindset and skillset required to solve the diverse technical challenges of the 21st century. Below are some examples of these projects.
Explore a sampling of past experiential learning projects and trips by the CREATE Institute.
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo