Czech Technical University | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Czech Technical University
Czech Technical University
Students at MSOE have the opportunity to study at one of the oldest and best technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic. This is an exchange program, which means CTU students can also come to MSOE to study. CTU has been ranked among the top 500 universities in the world by the Times Higher Education newspaper.
This program is currently open to the following majors:
mechanical engineering
computer and software engineering
computer science
Key features:
All courses are taught in English.
Students work with their program director to choose individual courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
This program is one semester long, from February to June, making it ideal for those who don’t want to be abroad for the whole year.
In most cases, participation does not delay graduation.
Students can take courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Czech Technical University
Founded in 1707,
Czech Technical University
in Prague is the oldest technical university in Central Europe. Currently, the university consists of six schools and seven institutes that offer programs leading to bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees in mathematics, physics, computer science and architecture, as well as numerous engineering disciplines.
Prague, Czech Republic
Capital of Czech Republic, Prague is the only major city of Central Europe to escape the bombs of World War I and II. It is Europe’s best preserved Baroque city along with a rich heritage of 20th century Art Nouveau design. Prague’s spired buildings, famed bridges, cobbled streets and rich cultural history make it one of the world’s most beautiful and charming cities.
See here for
Program Cost Estimates.
Housing & Meals at CTU
MSOE students studying at CTU typically live in the
Masaryk
international student dormitory. Accommodations usually consist of 2- to 3-person shared bedrooms within a suite that includes a shared bathroom and kitchen. As part of the pre-departure process, you will register for housing and submit a small deposit. While at CTU, you’ll be responsible for paying rent on a monthly basis.
There are no formal meal plans, but you’ll have a variety of dining options, including affordable campus canteens, nearby restaurants, and local markets where you can shop and prepare your own meals.
General Calendar at CTU
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at CTU based on the university's
academic calendar
. MSOE students study during the Spring Semester at CTU. In general, you can plan for:
Early February: Arrival, Orientation, and Registration
Mid-February - End of May: Classes
End of May - End of June: Examination Period
Courses at CTU
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinato
r to discuss academic planning and course selection at CTU. While abroad, students typically enroll in approximately 30 ECTS credits, which is equivalent to 15 U.S. credit hours.
When viewing the
courses at CTU,
be sure to look for those offered during the “S” (spring) semester. Please note that some courses may only run if a minimum number of students enroll.
Courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation.
Getting a Czech Visa
Students who hold non-EU passports are required to obtain a
long-term student visa
to study at CTU. Multicultural Affairs will host a visa workshop to guide you through the paperwork and help you submit your application. Currently, U.S. citizens are not required to attend an in-person appointment for the visa process.
Important deadlines are posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page to ensure that all documents are submitted in time for your visa to be processed before departure. Please note: traveling before the program begins is strongly discouraged, as your visa will be issued based on your official program start date—not the date your application was submitted.
Travel Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs and to meet the insurance requirement for obtaining a Czech student visa.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
coverage for the duration of the program (February 1–June 30). The cost of this coverage will be billed to the student’s MSOE account and included with their Spring semester tuition.
Additional Information
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo