Finance | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Finance
Finance
The Bachelor of Science in Finance program provides students with an opportunity to study business finance, investment analysis, portfolio management and the financial management of corporations and other businesses.
Finance is the language of business. The Bachelor of Science in Finance at MSOE allows students to become fluent in the language of business by focusing on learning how individuals and business organizations raise capital, and how those resources are allocated among competing investment opportunities to create value.
Course coverage includes corporate finance, security markets, investment valuations, portfolio management, financial modeling and capital budgeting. Students will gain a strong finance foundation while having the flexibility to explore additional topics of interest, including courses in advanced accounting, information technology, data analytics and financial engineering.
Through the finance program, students gain an understanding of financial theory and practice, how to analyze financial statements while evaluating the health of a firm, to apply financial modeling skills for the valuation of the firm, securities and other financial vehicles, portfolio management strategies, to evaluate portfolio performance, and effective communication skills and teamwork. Finance is a broad field that prepares students for positions in corporations, investment firms, government, banks and entrepreneurship. Finance careers include positions in corporate finance, security analysis, investment management, retail, commercial banking, retail investment brokerage, financial advising and many more. With a B.S. in Finance from MSOE, graduates understand all aspects of business and begin contributing to industry immediately upon graduation.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Finance program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider B.S. in Finance if you...
Enjoy analyzing numbers
Like utilizing problem-solving skills to develop creative solutions
Have an inquisitive brain that questions why things are the way they are
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Finance.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of our 2024–25 graduates from the finance program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Kenneth Dobbs
Assistant Professor
(414) 277-2438
Dobbs@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo