School of Nursing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
School of Nursing
School of Nursing
The MSOE School of Nursing excels in educating nurses who impact society as expert practitioners, leaders and scholars.
We do this by developing the knowledge, skills and attitudes nurses need to provide safe, effective, high-quality, patient-centered care as members of a complex, continuously evolving health care system. The Ruehlow Nursing Complex, an innovative and experiential learning center, houses the
School of Nursing labs
and state-of-the-art Simulation Center where students practice hands-on skills in a hospital-like setting. Our students also get rewarding clinical experiences in a variety of hospitals and health care agencies around metro Milwaukee.
The School of Nursing is located on the
first floor of the Campus Center
and may be reached at (414) 277-7158.
Get to know our faculty in the School of Nursing.
MSOE's School of Nursing offers two tracks to help you secure your BSN.
Incoming freshman can live alongside like-minded individuals and collaborate with both the School of Nursing and Residence Life to engage in academic support and community-building.
Take your nursing career to the next level with an MSN.
Our Gerontology Certificate is designed for registered nurses who are seeking to elevate their knowledge and skills in caring for older adults.
Our PMHNP Certificate is designed for registered nurses who are seeking to elevate their knowledge and skills in caring for mental and behavioral health needs.
The Ruehlow Nursing Complex is a technology-rich experiential learning and simulation center that trains the nurses of tomorrow.
Professional State Licensure/Certification Disclosure
Implemented in July 2020, the U.S. Department of Education regulation 34 CFR Sec. 668.43(2)(v), requires educational institutions to disclose a list of states/jurisdictions where the institution’s curriculum meets state educational requirements for professional licensure or certification. Each state/jurisdiction has unique educational and prerequisite requirements that candidates must meet in order to obtain licensure or certification.
Completion of MSOE’s CCNE accredited Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program meets educational requirement to apply for RN licensure in Alabama, Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin (last updated 4/2021). A determination that curriculum meets educational requirements for licensure or certification in other states/jurisdictions is in process.
While this information has been collected to assist with students’ research, you are encouraged to do your own due diligence regarding whether or not the educational requirements of your program of interest meet certification/licensure requirements in the state/jurisdiction in which you will seek licensure/certification. For access to each states’/jurisdictions’ website, please visit the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) Professional Licensure Requirements.
Please contact the
MSOE School of Nursing
for more information.
Class of 2001
Nursing – Traditional Track
Clover L. Barnes
Professor
Nursing – Traditional Track
Dr. Jane Paige
Class of 2014
Nursing – Traditional Track
Emily Plaski
Academics
08.14.2019
Nursing student researches culturally responsible cancer care
Joy Orji, a student in the MSOE School of Nursing, spent her summer at the Medical College of Wisconsin researching cancer-related health disparities while…
Read More
Academics
05.17.2019
Nursing students work together to solve puzzles, treat patients, and “Escape the Lab”
MSOE brought the popular “Escape Room” trend to the classroom with “Escape the Lab,” a fun way for students to prepare for exams by racing against the…
Read More
School of Nursing
Campus Center - First Floor
(414) 277-7158
Nursing Living Learning Community Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more about the Nursing Living Learning Community? Fill out the inquiry form to find out more!
Inquiry form
View Academic Catalog
MSOE's course catalog provides our students with detailed information on courses, policies, procedures and more.
View Catalog
Virtually Tour MSOE!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo