Faculty | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Who We Serve
Faculty
Faculty
CREATE supports faculty in all programs and academic departments by curating resources and offering exceptional programming designed to develop high-impact educational experiences and expand the reach of real-world projects for students.
The CREATE Institute offers a plethora of support to faculty to ensure they have the resources and tools they need to provide high-impact educational experiences to our students.
Center for Teaching and Learning
Our
Center for Teaching and Learning
is available to support faculty all year round with:
New faculty onboarding
Faculty mentoring
Workshops
Communities of practice
One-on-one support
In-class support
Teaching observations
Teaching and learning lending library
Grants for external faculty development
Hub for Experiential Learning
As MSOE’s
Hub for Experiential Learning
, CREATE is available to help make it easier for faculty to bring real-world projects into their courses. Our team can help you...
Find projects that met specific criteria
Help you facilitate projects if requested
Arrange a student mentor to assist you with the project in your course
Fund site visits and project materials
Provide access to
EduSourced
, MSOE’s project management system for project-based experiential learning
Office of Servant-Leadership
MSOE’s
Office of Servant-Leadership
is available to help you personally grow as a leader and help you support your students as they develop the MSOE Mindset. Reach out to Gene Wright, Pieper Family Endowed Chair for Servant-Leadership, if you are interested in…
Monthly roundtable discussions
City wide leadership events
Servant-leadership lending library
In-class support
Workshops
One-on-one leadership development coaching
The Cove @ The CREATE Institute
The Cove
offers programming grounded in the exposure, practice, and integration of the entrepreneurial mindset: curiosity, connections and creating value.
There are four signature programs supported throughout the academic year:
Conversations @ The Cove
Entrepreneurial Mindset Development @ The Cove
Experiential Learning @ The Cove
Workshops @ The Cove
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo