REU Advisors | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Undergraduate Research
Research Experience for Undergraduates
REU Advisors
REU Advisors
PI Brian Slaboch
, an
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
, has ten years of experience in higher education, advising 30 undergraduate students on research projects since 2015. Since 2020, he has mentored 15 undergraduate researchers at MSOE, resulting in five peer-reviewed conference publications in mechanisms and robotics with undergraduate student co-authors. Dr. Slaboch is the recipient of the
2024 Karl O. Werwath Applied Research Award
, the highest honor for contribution to applied research at MSOE. He has also overseen over 40 senior design projects related to robotics and automation and served as a committee member for four Master’s thesis projects at Marquette University. His research work has been supported by funding from the WSGC and Eaton Corporation. His space related research includes the design of space latching mechanisms, the design of underactuated robotic grippers, and the design and control of reconfigurable space mechanisms for the efficient sorting and assembly of space components.
Co-PI Kevin Hart
, an
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
, has seven years of experience in higher education and three years of experience as a post-doctoral research fellow at the US Army Research Laboratory. Dr. Hart has advised 19 graduate and undergraduate students since 2016, which resulted in eight peer-reviewed publications, one patent and dozens of presentations at national conferences. Additionally, Dr. Hart has advised seven undergraduate bachelor’s theses, 15 senior design projects, and two REU students under award EEC-2045738. Dr. Hart is the recipient of the
2025 Oscar Werwath Distinguished Teacher Award
, the highest honor for excellence in teaching and mentorship at MSOE. Dr. Hart is an expert in the field of additive manufacturing and self-healing materials and has received funding from the US Army Combat Capabilities Development Command Soldier Center, The American Society for Composites, and the US Army HEROES (Harnessing Emerging Research Opportunities to Empower Soldiers) program.
Mentor Nate Patterson
, an
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
,
has ten years of experience in higher education. During this time, he has advised eighteen senior design projects, six of which have relied heavily on aerodynamic design and experimentation. Dr. Patterson has served as a mentor for two NSF REU students, overseen five independent study student projects and two undergraduate theses. Patterson has received two partial-leave awards to research and develop his VWT, which he has used in Fluid Mechanics-related courses. His research projects have incorporated statistical modeling and prediction approaches, computational fluid mechanics, experimental fluid mechanics, reinforcement learning, neural networks, physics informed neural networks, and mesh-based graph neural networks.
Mentor Patrick Comiskey
has been an
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
for four years. In that time, he has mentored nine undergraduate researchers resulting in one peer-reviewed conference proceeding in high-powered rocketry and one peer-reviewed journal publication in nuclear fusion, both with undergraduate student co-authors. Additionally, his research has been supported by external funding from the WSGC where he has two undergraduate researchers for the 2025-2026 school year working on multiphase fluid dynamic simulations in space using MSOE’s high-performance computer cluster. He’s been the advisor for two BSc thesis students and has been on one PhD thesis committee at the Univ. of Illinois at Chicago. His space related research encompasses aerodynamic phenomena such as transonic flight and fin flutter and nuclear fusion resulting from galactic cosmic radiation.
Mentor Mikayla Moody
, an
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
, is entering her second year at MSOE. During
her PhD studies, she mentored seven undergraduate students and one high school student, which has led to multiple publications, abstract submissions, and poster presentations. Through the Society of Women Engineers Mentoring Network, she has mentored undergraduate students about gaining research experience and applying to graduate school. With support from the NC space grant, she researched graphene-based devices as an undergraduate at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.
Mentor Ruiyang Wang
, an
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
, received his PhD degree in 2021 at the
University of California and joined MSOE in Fall 2024. He has multiple years of experience in supervising capstone projects, independent studies, and voluntary research as both a Teaching Assistant and faculty member. He worked as a Dynamics Modeling and Simulation Engineer at Hyperloop One and Model-Based Controls Engineer at Boston Metal prior to joining MSOE. His research areas include dynamics and control, modeling and control of electromagnetic systems, robotics, structural vibrations, and vibrations of coupled flexible-rigid body systems
Mentor Michael Hayes
is a second-year
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
at MSOE. He mentored an undergraduate student researcher as a graduate student at Michigan State University, a collaboration that culminated in a presentation by the student at the AIChE’s Midwest Regional Conference. Since arriving at MSOE, Dr. Hayes has advised a senior design project and collaborated with Johnson Controls to provide students with classroom experiences that utilize industrial HVAC equipment. His research lies in thermochemical energy storage, a technology that can provide zero-carbon storage opportunities for both Earth-based and lunar environments.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo