Computer Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer engineers are at the forefront of technological innovation. MSOE’s B.S. in computer engineering program balances hardware and software, building on the disciplines of electrical engineering and computer science.
Beyond desktop and laptop computers, devices like iPads, set-top boxes, digital cameras, anti-lock brakes, satellite radio, cell phones, avionics, smart cards and countless other products exist today thanks to the creativity, knowledge and skill of computer engineers.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our computer engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Employers come back to MSOE year after year because of the level of knowledge, skills and professionalism our computer engineering graduates bring to the workplace. Their achievements are impressive, and you will find them working in exciting positions with some of the country’s most respected companies and organizations.
You may want to consider CE if you …
Enjoy working with computers and computer systems
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Are prepared to be a lifelong learner to maintain knowledge and skills in the rapidly changing computer industry
Accreditation
The Computer Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria Computer Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Computer Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
92%
We're proud that 92% of 2024-25 graduates from our computer engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished computer engineering faculty!
Class of 2013
Computer Engineering
Chris Feilbach
Class of 2000
Computer Engineering
Matt Guth
Class of 1998
Computer Engineering
Raja Mukerji
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Russ Meier
Program Director
(414) 277-2243
meier@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo