Lübeck University of Applied Sciences | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Lübeck University of Applied Sciences
Lübeck University of Applied Sciences
Students have the opportunity to study at the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences (THL) in Lübeck, a beautiful city by the coast located in Northern Germany.
Studying in Lübeck
All courses are taught in English, but instruction in conversational German is given.
All course work transfers to the MSOE program and participation does not delay a student’s progress towards graduation.
The Lübeck school year is portioned into two semesters, with a five-week break between semesters, providing an excellent opportunity for travel throughout Europe. Europe’s sleek, high-speed trains make travel between major cultural attractions affordable and fast.
Year-Long Student Exchange Programs
Students in the Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering programs or students in the Rader School of Business have the opportunity to study in Germany during their junior year. Students study at Lübeck from September through June. Upon graduation, participating students who meet all requirements will receive a degree from MSOE and the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences, as well.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The classes you’ll take are very similar to those at MSOE, with the added cultural benefit of a class about German language and culture each semester. You’ll be in classes with German students for 30 hours per week. Many of them are future exchange students who plan to study at MSOE the following year as seniors, allowing for great camaraderie and lifelong friendships. You’ll also participate in organized cultural programs and tours of industrial companies throughout the year.
Program Manager:
Dr. Jennifer Bonniwell
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
All mechanical engineering classes in Germany have been developed to provide seamless credit toward bachelor’s degree progress at MSOE. In addition, a German designed course in Systematic Engineering Design and two opportunities for cultural immersion courses are offered. Many of the German students attending the mechanical engineering courses are those who plan to attend MSOE the following year. Upon completion of your junior year in Germany and your senior year at MSOE, you will receive both the BSME degree from MSOE and the Diplom-Ingenieur from Lübeck University of Applied Sciences.
Program Manager:
Dr. Nebojsa Sebastijanovic
RADER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS PROGRAMS
Gain a competitive advantage as well as a global perspective, work experience abroad, some foreign language fluency and an understanding of challenges that go beyond doing business in only one market. The programs provide a strong foundation in business and management, and the availability of a large number of elective courses for professional development. Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, & Operations and Systems Management majors can all participate in this program.
Program Manager:
Dr. Katrina Moskalik
Single Semester Student Exchange Programs
In addition to the full academic year experience that results in dual degrees, the Biomedical Engineering and Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management programs offer single semester study abroad opportunities with the Lübeck University of Applied Sciences. MSOE students study in Lübeck from February through June, taking courses that transfer for required courses in their respective MSOE curriculum.
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
Students take a combination of technical courses, which are taught in English, as well as options to take a German language and humanities courses. They study alongside German students, some of whom participated in the exchange program by studying at MSOE in the preceding fall term. Students work closely with faculty, many of whom have close ties with industry partners from the vibrant medical device industry in Lübeck and nearby Hamburg. Like the MSOE biomedical engineering program, the Lübeck counterpart is a tight-knit diverse community of faculty and students, which offers visiting students an opportunity to experience the culture of Germany and form lifelong relationships.
Program Manager:
Dr. Jeff LaMack
CIVIL AND ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
More details coming soon!
Program Manager:
Dr. William Gonwa
Housing & Meals at THL
MSOE students studying at THL typically live on campus in the student dormitory. Accommodations usually consist of 2- to 4 bedrooms within a suite that includes a shared bathroom and kitchen.  As part of the pre-departure process, you will sign up for and be assigned housing with the assistance of THL. While at THL, you’ll be responsible for paying rent on a monthly basis. Students studying for the full academic year should plan to pay their rent for one full year even if they move out before August. Students on the semester program should plan to pay 6-months rent.
There are no formal meal plans, but you’ll have a variety of dining options, including affordable campus canteens, nearby restaurants, and local markets where you can shop and prepare your own meals.
General Calendar at THL
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at THL based on the university's academic calendar. MSOE students study for the full year (Winter and Summer Semesters) or only during the Summer Semester. In general, you can plan for:
Winter (Fall) Semester:
Mid-September: Arrival and 2 weeks of orientation
End of September - End of January: Classes (with a 2-week Christmas break)
End of January - Mid-March: Examination Period
Summer (Spring) Semester:
End of February: Arrival, Orientation, and Registration (new students only)
Mid-March- Early July: Classes
Early - Mid-July: Examination Period
Courses at THL
Students participating in the THL exchange program will follow a predetermined set of courses based on their program of study. If you have questions about the curriculum or need to confirm that you meet the prerequisite and GPA requirements, be sure to consult with your department’s faculty
Study Abroad Coordinator
.
Travelling to THL
Participants in the exchange program will travel to Germany as a group and be met at the Hamburg airport by representatives from THL. Students will be instructed to purchase their own tickets on the same flight.
Students who wish to travel before the group’s arrival date are welcome to do so but must arrange their own transportation to Lübeck. Please note that early move-in to the dormitory is not permitted.
Getting a German Residence Visa
Students with non-EU passports are required to obtain a residence permit to study at THL. U.S. citizens may enter Germany as tourists and apply for the permit after arrival. Multicultural Affairs and THL will help students gather the necessary paperwork before departure, and a few weeks after arrival, students will apply for their permits as a group.
Non-U.S. citizens must apply for a visa before leaving the U.S. and should work closely with Multicultural Affairs to complete the process.
Before applying for your residence permit (or visa), you must open a
blocked bank account
to show proof of sufficient funds. You’ll deposit approximately €11,208, and receive a confirmation letter for your application. Once in Germany, you can withdraw a fixed monthly amount (around €934) for expenses such as rent, food, and insurance. If you receive a refund check from financial aid, be sure to discuss the timing of its release with the Financial Aid Office.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs and additional insurance to meet the insurance requirement for obtaining a German student visa.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program (Sept 15-Aug 15 or Feb 15-Aug 15). The cost of this coverage will be billed to the student’s MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Students are also required to enroll in the insurance they will need to meet the requirements of their German visa.  This insurance will cover them in the E.U. It can be purchased through a bundle with an Expatrio account when students are setting up their blocked bank accounts (see "Getting a German Residency Permit").
Additional Details
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo