Architectural Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
Architectural Engineering
M.S. in Architectural Engineering
MSOE’s Master of Science in Architectural Engineering prepares you to lead in building systems design and master advanced technologies shaping sustainable, high-performance buildings.
MSOE’s Master of Science in Architectural Engineering program prepares professionals to design and analyze advanced building systems.
The curriculum integrates sustainability across all building and infrastructure design disciplines; combining
architectural
engineering fundamentals with depth in specialized areas, equipping graduates to lead complex projects and innovate in the built environment.
Students can specialize in one of two areas:
Building Mechanical, Electrical, and Power Systems
- advanced topics in building control systems, commissioning, renewable energy systems, and energy simulations.
Building Structural Systems
- advanced design and analysis of reinforced concrete, steel, wood, and timber structures, plus structural modeling and stability.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
In-person classes
31 credits
Personal statement
Official undergraduate transcripts
1 Letter of Recommendation (only required if GPA is below 3.0)
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Architectural Engineering? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum Format
Courses are taught by faculty with extensive industry experience and academic credentials. Flexible scheduling supports both full-time students and working professionals.
Each student must complete a sequence of capstone courses. There are two options for the capstone activity.
The first option is the completion of a seven-credit, two-semester Capstone Project sequence (CAE 7810, CVE 7901 and CVE 7902) in addition to eight civil engineering courses (24 credits) to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
The second option is the completion of a four-credit, one-semester Capstone Report sequence (CAE 7810 and CVE 7901) in addition to nine civil engineering courses (27 credits) to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the CAECM Early Entry Master’s program can apply here.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Architectural Engineering graduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished faculty!
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo