Graduate Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership and Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership and Management Certificate
Graduate Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership and Management
Certificate Overview
The current rapidly evolving healthcare landscape necessitates continuous updates for nursing administrators and leaders. The Graduate Nursing Executive Leadership and Management Certificate is fully online and provides introductory concepts required for nursing administrators.
This certificate provides education in:
Emerging health care trends, technologies, and patient care demands.
Incorporating advanced content on informatics, quality improvement and population health while addressing the growing emphasis on holistic, technology-driven and equitable care approaches in modern nursing.
The Graduate Nursing Executive Leadership and Management Certificate consists of a series of fully online courses that combine theoretical knowledge with practical applications. Each course is designed to foster critical thinking and problem-solving skills, preparing students to lead effectively in a complex health care environment.
In an era where health care is increasingly driven by technology and innovative practices, this certificate provides nursing leaders with the tools necessary to thrive by focusing on contemporary challenges and solutions in healthcare.
This program prepares graduates to make meaningful contributions to their organizations and the communities they serve. The certificate can be completed in two semesters of full-time study or four terms of part-time study (excluding summer).
Admission Requirements
Bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited university.
GPA of at least 3.0 (on 4.0 scale).
Current unrestricted licensure as a Registered Nurse.
Statistics grade of C or higher in a 3-credit, level 300 or higher course has been taken within the last 5 years of date of application.
Documentation Required
Official undergraduate transcripts
Copy of your RN license
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership and Management in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the Graduate Certificate in Nursing Executive Leadership and Management? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more? Fill out the graduate inquiry form and admissions will be in touch!
Inquiry Form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo