MSOE Archives | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Library
MSOE Archives
MSOE Archives
Mission Statement
The mission of the Archives of the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) is to maintain, preserve and make available the records, manuscripts, and other items of historical significance that document MSOE’s past. The collection includes records from administrative offices, academic departments, and student organizations. Student newspapers, photographs and artifacts are also represented. The collection also includes the records of the Milwaukee County General Hospital Alumni Association (MCGHSN-AA), which now incorporates graduates of MSOE’s nursing program into its organization.
Reference Services
The Milwaukee School of Engineering provides reference services for our archival collections. Requests for this service can be made by sending an email to
archives@msoe.edu
. Requests will be completed as time allows; because of the nature of research, some requests may take longer. Requests from MSOE affiliates will take precedence. After a request is made, a member of our staff will contact you with an estimated time frame for when the request will be filled.
Fees may be charged for archival research, archival document copying and photographic reproductions. Contact the MSOE archivist for more details.
Digital collections include photographs, school publications, and other archival items that are part of the Archives. These collections document various histories at MSOE, including engineering education, radio history, student life, and other topics.
This collection includes graduating class images from the Milwaukee County General Hospital School of Nursing and a digital scan of The Centennial History of Milwaukee County Medical Complex School of Nursing, 1888-1988.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo