Accounting | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Accounting
Accounting
The Bachelor of Science in Accounting program provides a strong foundation in accounting practices leading students towards successful employment in the accounting profession.
The Bachelor of Science in Accounting program coupled with MSOE’s strong technical and analytic style results in work ready students who can get the job done. The program enables graduates to analyze complex accounting problems and apply accounting, tax, auditing and research and other relevant discipline to identify solutions. Accounting students learn to design, prepare and evaluate financial information using technology. The curriculum reflects strong analytics, encourages deep critical thinking, exploration of data analytics and the cutting-edge use of artificial intelligence to advance the accounting field. Students will learn to communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts and collaborate effectively across disciplines.
Unique to the accounting program, students have the option to seamlessly transition into a one-year master’s degree program specializing in analytics after completing the four-year Bachelor of Science in Accounting program. The MBA program specializes in analytics, data wrangling, predictive modeling, innovation and entrepreneurship. Completing the master’s program enables students to meet the Certified Public Accounting (CPA) course/content requirements and are eligible for the CPA exam.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Accounting program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider a B.S. in Accounting if you…
Enjoy working with numbers
Have a keen eye and attention to detail
Are highly organized and manage your time well
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Accounting program.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Ramiro Serrano-Garcia
Associate Professor
(414) 277-7589
serrano-garcia@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo