Computer Programs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Computer Programs
Be a Real Force in Artificial Intelligence
If computers are your thing, MSOE is your place. With bachelor’s degrees in computer science, computer engineering, software engineering, user experience (UX) and cybersecurity systems, students learn on the leading edge of technology and gain the knowledge needed to revolutionize the tech scene. Unique to MSOE, undergraduate students get to work with MSOE’s supercomputer, Rosie, to solve real-world projects with industry professionals. Learn more about where an MSOE degree can take you.
Degree Offerings
MSOE’s CE program integrates hardware and software, building on the disciplines of electrical engineering and computer science. Graduates have not only the technological know-how and communication skills, but also the leadership skills and business knowledge to move their organizations forward.
Graduates of MSOE’s computer science program will be prepared to write cutting-edge software to solve tomorrow’s problems with a special emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Learn how to apply engineering concepts, techniques and methods to develop software systems in one of the first four ABET-accredited software engineering programs in the country.
The cybersecurity systems program integrates science and mathematics with computer science, software engineering, political science and ethics to prepare a computing professional capable of developing and deploying computing systems that consistently maintain confidentiality, integrity and availability.
Are you tech-savvy and creative? When you look at a mobile application, do you see ways it can be improved to help users achieve their goals? Thanks to UX leaders such as Apple, Google, and Amazon, consumers expect their digital service experience to be clean, simple, and user-friendly regardless of the device or platform.
News
Students
10.01.2025
MSOE students use AI to create man-made glaciers
This summer, computer science and machine learning students Ben Paulson and Brett Storoe traded in their laptops for snowmobiles in Santiago, Chile. The…
Read More
Students
09.12.2025
AI in Action: MSOE interns make an impact at Husco
After a rigorous academic year of classes, projects and presentations, students apply their newfound knowledge and hone their skills at summer internships…
Read More
MSOE
07.29.2025
Brookings Institution names Milwaukee a Nascent Adopter of Artificial Intelligence (AI)
With the surge in artificial intelligence (AI) across the country, a study from the Brookings Institution benchmarked cities and regions to see which are…
Read More
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo