Nursing Living Learning Community | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
Nursing Living Learning Community
Nursing Living Learning Community
Incoming freshman nursing students are invited to join the Nursing Living Learning Community (LLC) at MSOE!
The Nursing LLC is designed to promote student engagement and development in their academic focus, as well as provide exclusive opportunities to explore MSOE’s campus and community as they learn about their future profession.
1 / 2
Learn about the positive impact MSOE's Nursing Living Learning Community has had on students in the program.
2 / 2
Hear from an MSOE nursing faculty and student about the one-of-a-kind opportunities that the Nursing Living Learning Community offers.
About the Nursing Living Learning Community
The Nursing Living Learning Community (LLC) is an opportunity for students to live alongside like-minded individuals. Nursing LLC members collaborate with both the School of Nursing and Residence Life to engage in academic support and enjoy programs for building community. Students who have participated in an LLC have expressed an increase in academic success, higher GPA and a greater sense of belonging.
2025-26 academic year
: Nursing LLC will be in Grohmann Tower
2026-27 academic year forward
: Nursing LLC will be in Viets Tower
Benefits of the Nursing Living Learning Community
Exclusive early move-in and retreat with professional staff
Access to a nursing faculty advisor and Residence Life staff on a weekly basis
Regularly scheduled social outings, professional development and volunteer opportunities
Nursing tutoring, weekly study nights and access to study materials
Live alongside like-minded individuals and collaborate with both the School of Nursing and Residence Life to engage in academic support and community-building.
The Anatomy and Physiology JumpStart program will help you develop your skills and gain confidence working on the structured objectives in ALEKS, connect with Anatomy and Physiology faculty and build your MSOE community.
About Grohmann Tower (2025-26 academic year)
The Grohmann Tower is MSOE’s apartment-style residence hall. In addition to collaborative on
-site classrooms and lounges, the Grohmann Tower features:
Two-person apartments on a co-ed floor
525–592 square-feet depending on layout
Furnishings include bed, dresser, desk and chair
Kitchenette includes stove, refrigerator and microwave
AC/Heat and utilities provided
Laundry room on 4th floor accessible with Raider Dollars
Free Wi-Fi when students bring their own router
About Viets Tower (2026-27 academic year forward)
Hermann Viets Tower opened in 2021 and is comprised of 12 residential floors and a series of t
wo-story collaboration hubs
constructed in a southern-facing, glass-enclosed addition
overlooking the Milwaukee skyline.
Each floor has a Resident Assistant who leads and plans
activities, builds community on the floor, and supports a safe and welcoming living environment.
Each floor includes two community bathrooms and an accessible bathroom.
Modernized rooms and living spaces are designed to serve the diverse needs of all students.
The updated bedrooms include air conditioning units, and flexible furniture allows students to customize their living spaces.
New restrooms and a central study area round out each floor.
All residential rooms include native wireless routers, and students also have access to Wi-Fi across campus.
About Living-Learning Communities
Living-learning communities (LLCs) are unique housing groups that allow students to extend their learning beyond the classroom and enable the university to continue fostering the growth of the MSOE Mindset, which identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. LLCs create comprehensive in- and out-of-class learning environments that offer heightened levels of student engagement with faculty, peers and their own learning.
Regarded as a high-impact educational practice, LLCs have shown demonstrated impact on student engagement, retention, graduation and personal success by integrating students into a community of like-minded learners. The new space will help MSOE to continue attracting high-caliber students from around the globe, improve student satisfaction, and give them a residential experience to match the quality of the education they are receiving.
Nursing Living Learning Community Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more about the Nursing Living Learning Community? Fill out the inquiry form to find out more!
Inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo