The Cove @ The CREATE Institute | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Hub for Experiential Learning
The Cove @ The CREATE Institute
The Cove @ The CREATE Institute
The Cove is an extension of the CREATE Institute and provides students, faculty, staff and alumni with the opportunity to explore their curiosities.
About The Cove
Opening its doors in 2022, The Cove @ The CREATE Institute supports expanding experiential learning opportunities on campus. The Cove provides a structure for the MSOE community to engage in project-based learning and mindset development. We foster the growth of the Entrepreneurial Mindset through open lab hours, hands-on workshops and guest speaker series.
Physical Location
Ladish Co. Entrepreneurial Space
: located on the ground floor of Viets Tower, this collaboration space is open to all MSOE community members to host workshops, competitions and guest speakers.
Nelson Prototype Lab
: located on the ground floor of Viets Tower, this lab is open to all students, faculty, staff and alumni who are interested in hands-on exploration. Training is required to use the 3D printers, Cricut machines and button maker.
Resources in the Nelson Prototype Lab
Fully equipped with all you need to create prototypes and explore the MSOE Mindset (including 3D printers, Cricut machines, hand tools, button maker and so much more)
Consumables are available free of charge to students using the lab for academic purposes and personal projects.
If you are interested in using lab equipment,
check out our Canvas training course.
Cove Programming
We support programming grounded in the exposure, practice, and integration of the entrepreneurial mindset: curiosity, connections and creating value.
There are four signature programs supported throughout the academic year:
Conversations @ The Cove
Entrepreneurial Mindset Development @ The Cove
Experiential Learning @ The Cove
Workshops @ The Cove
The CREATE Institute offers a leadership development program for students, the CREATE Student Fellows Program. The program is grounded in the tenets of servant-leadership and strengthens development of the MSOE Mindset.
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo