Architectural Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Architectural Engineering
Architectural Engineering
MSOE’s architectural engineering degree prepares you for a career in the design and construction of buildings and building systems. Lecture and laboratory courses integrate theory and practical application. You’ll choose from three specialties: building electrical systems, building mechanical systems or building structural systems.
One of three academic programs in MSOE's CAECM Department (and one of only 22 accredited AE programs nationwide), our Architectural Engineering program gives students the curriculum and hands-on experience in AE specialties to transform sketches into structures.
In today’s environment, architectural engineers are needed to build efficient, sustainable structures safely, quickly and within budget. You’ll leave MSOE with a strong core skill set in mathematics, science, construction materials, methods and building information modeling, while the accredited degree enables graduates to seek Professional Engineer (P.E.) licensing.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our architectural engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider AE if you …
Prefer activities that require creativity and imagination
Are able to plan, direct and control the activities and work of others
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Are able to visualize drawings or pictures as 3-D objects
Get excited about buildings and architecture
Accreditation
The Architectural Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Architectural Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Architectural Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of our 2024-25 graduates from the AE program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished architectural engineering faculty!
Class of 1995
Architectural Engineering
Brett Laureys
Class of 2011
Architectural Engineering
Matthew Olsen
Alumni build Diercks Hall
Architectural Engineering
Construction begins on $34 million Diercks Hall
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Jayme Radomski, P.E.
Program Director
(414) 277-2751
radomski@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo