Human Engineering Programs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Human Engineering Programs
Engineering on a Human Level
Engineering products or services that improve the lives of others—that’s engineering on a human level. MSOE’s bachelor’s degrees in biomedical engineering and chemical and biomolecular engineering provide students with the opportunity to solve big problems that make an even bigger difference.
Biomedical engineers
use engineering principles and methods to create products and services that enhance people’s lives, such as cardiac pacemakers, CT scanners and artificial hips.
Chemical and biomolecular engineers
work at the molecular level to promote both fundamental and applied advancements in biological sciences, engineering and other fields.
Learn more about how these programs set you up for a life-changing career.
Biomedical engineers use engineering principles and methods to create products and services to improve peoples’ lives, such as cardiac pacemakers, CT scanners and artificial hips.
Chemical and biomolecular engineers work at the interface of engineering and molecular biology to solve engineering problems, improve current products and processes and develop new products and processes at the molecular level. Students in MSOE’s program learn about cell engineering, nanotechnology and genomics in advanced laboratories.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo