Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Engineering
Engineering Labs & Facilities
There’s plenty of space to tinker, test and innovate in MSOE’s extensive, industry-standard engineering labs and facilities.
Here are some of the places where you’ll find our students and faculty hard at work:
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Laboratories
MSOE’s state-of-the-art Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Laboratory Suite includes a wet biotechnology lab, senior design lab, dry instrumentation lab and BSL-II cell culture facility. The multimillion-dollar laboratories were built with a generous gift from Drs. Robert and Patricia Kern. The laboratories feature:
Top-of-the-line equipment, including -20ºC and -80ºC freezers to store DNA, RNA and other biomolecules
Storage cabinets with negative pressure that safely contain vapors
Macro- and micro-centrifuges
An autoclave that can steam- or dry-sterilize both liquids and glassware
Data-input jacks and wireless hubs throughout all four laboratories
A student lounge area for group meetings, projects and studying
Caspian Cyber Security Laboratory
The Caspian Cyber Security Lab allows students to conduct real-world cyber security experiments and test defensive mechanisms in a professional and controlled environment. The room is grounded with special shielding paint and an electromagnetic field to prevent computer viruses that students are working on from spreading to the rest of campus through the wireless network.
Cohen Human Machine Interface Laboratories
These laboratories create a space for students to jump into their work and expand their workspaces. Each desk includes pop-up individual monitors for students to plug their laptops into and create extended screens, making it easier for students to view intricate work.
Students are able to take a trip to the operating room without leaving campus by working on the Anatomage Table. The Anatomage Table is a fully segmented, real human 3D anatomy system that allows for exploration and learning of human anatomy. The life-sized, touch screen experience is displayed in an operatory bed form to enable students to visualize anatomy exactly as they would on a cadaver.
Construction Science and Engineering Center
This center promotes innovation in the building design and construction industries by conducting applied research in structural materials and systems as well as construction methods. It also ensures that MSOE graduates understand the physical realities of structural behavior and construction. With 2,100 square feet of floor space and a clear height of 36 feet, the center is dedicated to testing products for structural integrity and failure points, helping to determine marketability and safety. Specialized and adaptable structural testing systems can produce loads from 50 to 500,000 pounds on specimens up to 24 feet tall. The lab has multiple computerized data acquisition capabilities and an extensive array of transducers for measuring force, displacement and strain.
Dedicated Computing Data Analytics Laboratory
The Dedicated Computing Data Analytics Lab provides laboratory space for students to experiment with data analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence. Students training through simulators will have the ability to dynamically adjust to the learning techniques of the individual, creating deeper and engaging environments that will increase overall learning.
LogistiVIEW AR/VR Laboratory
In our LogistiVIEW AR/VR Lab, students will design and/or be immersed in augmented and virtual reality environments such as nursing simulations, or “walks” through a building to visualize the mechanical systems they’re designing. Next door, in the Hamel AR/VR Classroom, students will be learning more about these technologies.
Northwestern Mutual AI Laboratory
Our Northwestern Mutual AI Lab has data-rich configurable laboratories that will evolve with the curriculum and allow students to deep dive into advanced technology systems.
Sanquini Senior Design Laboratory
The Sanquini Senior Design Lab is a team-focused room rounded out with 65-inch 4K monitors, lockers for students to store their design materials and a kitchenette to fuel students during long work sessions.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo