Operations and Systems Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Operations and Systems Management
Operations and Systems Management
The Bachelor of Science in Operations and Systems Management provides a strong foundation in business and technical skills to prepare students for success.
The Bachelor of Science in Operations and Systems Management dives into supply chain management, operations management, enterprise resource planning (ERP), continuous improvement and project management to provide students with a unique blend of technical skills, business knowledge and practical hands-on experiences. The program prepares students to be innovative collaborators with the power to leverage strategic thinking to improve operating efficiency.
Graduates of the B.S. in Operations and Systems Management will be able to strategically analyze, evaluate and solve business problems using technology and an understanding of the social context. They will obtain the knowledge and skillsets needed to effectively work with and lead diverse teams. Operations and systems management careers include account manager, business development director, inventory manager, logistics manager, operations analyst, regional manager, sales manager and more.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Operations and Systems Management program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider a B.S. in Operations and Systems Management if you…
Enjoy taking a leadership role in projects and are adept at multitasking
Have a sense for efficiency and quality
Desire a hands-on technical career in a business environment
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Operations and Systems Management program.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of our 2024–25 graduates from the operations and systems management program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. David Rollins
Assistant Professor
(414) 277-7276
rollins@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo