Supporting Senior Projects | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Senior Project Showcase
Supporting Senior Projects
Supporting Senior Projects
Senior projects are most relevant when they are connected to real problems in the community and/or the industries students will eventually work within.
All
programs
at MSOE culminate with a senior project and/or industry experience that is designed to have students apply what they have learned to date to address a real world challenge. MSOE depends on a large number of corporate and non-profit partners to make this experience as purposeful and meaningful as possible. We hope this information is helpful to find a fit for the way(s) in which you might like to engage further.
What Makes a Good Project/Experience?
Solves a problem
Is relevant to the work students will do after graduation
Results in meaningful value to the project sponsor/mentor
Is scoped appropriately for the size of the team (10 hours/week per student)
Has a design element
Allows students to demonstrate skills in leadership, project management, technical writing, ethical thinking, safety and time management
What Makes a Good Sponsor/Mentor?
Sets realistic expectations (teams will be able to carry a limited feature set from inception to delivery)
Challenges team to act professionally and do their best work
Provides timely and meaningful feedback to the team
Is demonstrably interested in the success of the project
Provides any additional materials/equipment, technical assistance, and financial support to ensure project success
Senior design projects typically run through the Fall, Winter and Spring Quarters. Student teams define a design problem, identify several alternative solutions and develop a project plan for evaluating the possible solutions and solving the problem. Students develop a thorough project proposal, often working with the MSOE Institutional Review Board. They draw additional expertise from their specialty courses. At the end of the design project, students are expected to have produced complete project documentation and written reports, and oral presentations are required.
Actuarial Science Projects
Student teams complete a capstone project that allows them to apply probability concepts, statistics and time series analysis, and finance and mathematical concepts in a real-life case study.
Business Projects
Business students must complete an internship in the area of their intended career as an alternative to a senior project. Internships allow students to apply the skills that they have learned in the classroom in a work setting.  These internships are
posted to Handshake
and paid by the employer but differ from those typically taken on by students in other program areas because students are required to work with a faculty advisor in order to meet specified learning outcomes required for academic credit.
Civil, Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Projects
Project ideas are submitted in June, major requirements are showcased at a separate event in February, specialization requirements are completed in spring term.
“Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this process. It has been very valuable and interesting for us. I think I can speak for both of us when I say that it is refreshing to see the next generation stepping in and rising to the many challenging circumstances around us today. (Project Lead) and his peers will do you proud as they step into the working world.”  --Civil engineering project sponsor
Computer Science Projects
MSOE's undergraduate computer science program is differentiated by required courses in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Data Science, and Deep Learning.  Seniors choose between an undergraduate research project or a senior design project.  The proposals for these projects follow the same general timeline as those listed for engineering projects.
Engineering Projects
Senior engineering students work in teams on senior design projects, which most students begin planning in the spring of their junior year. Unless otherwise noted, coordinators begin discussing project ideas as early as October for the following school year with the objective of having all of the details worked out by March/April so students can select and, in some cases, start working on their projects.
Interdisciplinary Projects
Interdisciplinary project ideas originate with the predominant program area. Industry project sponsors identify what knowledge, skills and experience are needed to meet project objectives. MSOE project coordinators are then able to evaluate interdisciplinary ideas and engage other academic areas as needed to ensure project teams have the right mix of expertise to complete the project.
Nursing Projects
Nursing students complete a professional practice project that requires them to use evidence-based practice and a quality improvement framework, change theory or model to address a current clinical problem. Collaborating and consulting with staff nurses, nurse administrators, health care providers, or other health care partners, students work to implement a change in some aspect of the health care process. Project ideas are reviewed on a rolling basis so there is no specific deadline.
Technische Hochschule Lübeck (THL)/MSOE Exchange Student Projects
Exchange students from the Technical University of Applied Sciences Lübeck are expected to complete a thesis. The work on their thesis takes the form of one of the project categories already listed depending on the student’s major.
User Experience (UX) Projects
Each student team must research, analyze, design, and validate a product working alongside a client within an agile framework. Students will define the project problem, scope, and users by employing a variety of UX research methods and early design techniques. Teams meet regularly with their industry sponsor (a.k.a. the client).
Senior Project Showcase
MSOE hosts a university-wide senior project showcase event each year in May. Event information and a summary of all senior projects can be found on the Senior Project Showcase page.
Learn more
Submit Your Project Idea
Have a great idea for a senior project and would like to discuss further?  Most projects are discussed directly with the academic program most closely aligned with the scope of the proposed project. Please reach out to Angela Rome to get connected!
Email Angela
Other Ways to Partner with MSOE
We support a variety of mutually beneficial partnerships at a university, department, program, and classroom level.
Learn more
Intellectual Property at MSOE
Intellectual Property rights are an important consideration when companies choose to partner with universities.
View our IP policy
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo