Senior Project Showcase | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Senior Project Showcase
Senior Project Showcase
MSOE's Senior Project Showcase represents an important segment of student academic activities conducted during the year. A variety of projects are completed, some for outside organizations and some for the benefit of the university.
Friends of MSOE:
Senior Project Showcase (senior design) at MSOE is a longstanding tradition. It is in large part a celebration: an opportunity for friends and family, faculty and staff, and community partners and corporate sponsors, to bear witness to the bodies of work that define the graduating class.
Every fall, MSOE seniors across program areas put the knowledge they’ve gained and skills they’ve honed over their academic career to the test. Working with faculty advisors and industry partners, they form teams— or work individually—to solve a problem, improve a product or process, or create something entirely new. After months of learning and discovery, building and deconstructing, successes and failures, the culmination of these efforts are put on display as part of Senior Project Showcase.
The showcase is filled with great optimism and inspiration. Navigating the mazes of student excellence on display, we can only imagine where they will go next and what they will accomplish, knowing only—and with great certainty—that it will be extraordinary.
Join us on Friday, May 16!
Have a Project Idea?
Have an idea that would be a great fit for an upcoming senior project? Many projects are discussed directly with the
academic department
or
undergraduate program
primarily aligned to the scope of the project. If you have additional questions or are unsure which academic area your project idea fits best, please refer to the
Supporting Senior Projects
page of our website.
Senior Project Showcase Booklet
Prefer to have a printed copy of this year's senior project showcase booklet? Download the PDF version here.
Download the PDF
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
What the Seniors are Saying:
“Senior design has been an awesome experience. I really have enjoyed the experience and the challenge that it has provided for me and my teammates,” said Riley Buol, construction management major. His team is developing a six-story hotel with 100 rooms and street level retail/commercial space for Michels Corporation.
Riley's senior project
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo