Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Chemical and biomolecular engineering is a discipline that applies engineering principles, design concepts, and problem-solving skills to the life sciences at the molecular level to promote both fundamental and applied advancements in biological sciences, engineering and many related fields.
Chemical and biomolecular engineering is a diverse, application-driven discipline in the areas of medical, agricultural, environmental, biotechnical, and other related areas. International and national chemical and biological industries seek engineering graduates who are prepared to work at the molecular level in life-sciences related fields. The curriculum is a balanced combination of engineering, math, science, computation and HU/SS courses. Along with rigorous hands-on laboratory training, these courses address the cross-disciplinary nature of chemical and biomolecular engineering.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our chemical and biomolecular engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Working at the interface of engineering and molecular biology, graduates from this program solve engineering problems, improve current, and develop new products and processes at the molecular level.
The chemical and biomolecular engineering curriculum prepares graduates to handle the changing face of the chemical and bio-industries, thus allowing flexibility of career opportunities in a dynamic job market. The curriculum also prepares graduates to pursue quality graduate programs nationally and internationally.
You may want to consider Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering if you …
Enjoy chemistry, physics, biology and mathematics
Prefer to work at the molecular level of cells and cellular systems
Are detail oriented, able to measure precisely and use complex instruments
Are able to communicate well and work in teams
Have a desire to help others
Accreditation
The Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Chemical, Biochemical, Biomolecular Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024-25 graduates from our chemical and biomolecular engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished chemical and biomolecular engineering faculty!
Associate Professor
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Dr. Wujie Zhang
Class of 2022
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Muskan Kanungo
Class of 2021
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering
Jonathan Cobb
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Faisal Shaikh
Associate Professor
(414) 277-7325
shaikh@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo