Rader School of Business Advisory Board | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Rader School of Business
Rader School of Business Advisory Board
Rader School of Business Advisory Board
The Rader School of Business Advisory Board is a group of accomplished industry professionals who provide strategic guidance, real-world insight, and valuable connections to help ensure our programs remain relevant and impactful. Their expertise helps align our curriculum with industry needs, enhance student opportunities, and strengthen partnerships between MSOE and the business community.
Board Members
Tim Albrecht                                                                                                                              Group President, Milwaukee Tool
Tim Albrecht
is group president at Milwaukee Tool, a global leader in developing solutions for construction professionals. Albrecht joined Milwaukee Tool in 2007 and is currently responsible for multiple functions including Brand and Channel Marketing, Industrial Design, Talent Management, and Business Unit operations over hand tools, storage, and personal protective equipment. He is a member of the board of directors at Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce, Milwaukee Academy of Science, and a member of The Greater Milwaukee Committee.
Shannon Barraza, MBA, M.Ed.,                                                                                            Principal, Rocketship Public Schools
Shannon Barraza, MBA, M.Ed.,
is an experienced instructional leader currently serving as a principal at Rocketship Public Schools in Milwaukee. With a strong background in education, she has held roles as a classroom teacher and district-level instructional coach since 2011. Shannon earned her MBA in Educational Leadership from the Milwaukee School of Engineering, equipping her with the skills to effectively lead schools and coach teachers. Her leadership has led to significant improvements in student proficiency and growth, including elevating a school's state report card grade from D to B within a single academic year.
Christian Braun                                                                                                                Associate Project Lead in Front-End Innovation, Milwaukee Tool
Christian Braun
is an Associate Project Leader in Front-End Innovation at Milwaukee Tool, where he has spent nearly five years uncovering new business opportunities and driving early-stage product development through a User-Centered Design methodology. Christian has led concept design for multiple successful product launches, such as the BOLT™ Eye Visor and PACKOUT™ Rack Kit, and he currently holds seven utility patents. In his experience, Christian has fostered cross-functional collaboration, translated field research into actionable product roadmaps, and established new best practices for Front-End projects—cementing his reputation as a strategic, results-driven innovator within Milwaukee Tool’s design ecosystem.
Jeffrey Clark,                                                                                                                        CEO & Executive Partner, Waukesha Metal Products
Jeffrey Clark
Jeffrey Clark is CEO and executive partner at Waukesha Metal Products, a metal forming contract manufacturer serving diverse industries including automotive, aerospace, medical, telecommunications, and consumer products. With a focus on precision fabrications, stampings, and assemblies, Jeffrey has guided the company’s growth across international markets. He actively supports regional economic initiatives as a member of the MMAC Board of Directors.
Laura Diedrich                                                                                                                            Marketing & Communications Manager, Scot Forge
Laura Diedrich
is the Marketing & Communications Manager at Scot Forge, where she leads brand strategy, digital campaigns, customer engagement and corporate communications for one of the nation’s most respected manufacturers. With a decade at Scot Forge, and 20 years of sales and marketing experience, Laura has driven demand generation, market research and content creation across multiple channels crafting compelling narratives that highlight the company's 130+ year legacy of innovation and employee-ownership culture. Known for her strategic mindset and creative execution, she brings measurable value through customer feedback integration, pricing strategy, content creation and trade show leadership, all while championing the voice of the customer and the story of her fellow employee-owners.
Dr. Ronald J. Jensen                                                                                                  Advisor to the Chair, Rader School of Business
Dr. Ron Jensen
serves as a trusted advisor to the Rader School of Business Department Chair, Dr. Ruth Barratt, and has been a huge supporter for throughout the school's accreditation pursuit. Ron also serves on MSOE's Board of Regents providing invaluable support in the organization's mission.
Dr. George Kroeninger                                                                                                  Executive Director of the Center for Professional Education, MSOE
Dr. George Kroeninger
serves as the Executive Director of the Center for Professional Education at the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE). With over 30 years of experience in higher education leadership, he specializes in developing industry-informed, flexible learning programs that address the evolving needs of professionals and employers. At MSOE, Dr. Kroeninger has spearheaded initiatives in areas such as artificial intelligence, project management, and leadership development, offering diverse formats including workshops, webinars, and online offerings. Prior to his role at MSOE, he held leadership positions at the University of Wisconsin System, where he oversaw the development of numerous online degree and certificate programs and provided support to continuing education units at UW institutions around the state. Dr. Kroeninger holds a Doctor of Education from Edgewood College, a Master of Public Health from the University of Northern Colorado, and a Bachelor of Science in Adult Health and Fitness from the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh.
Paul Matson, CPA, MBA                                                                                                        Vice President of Finance & CFO, MSOE
Paul Matson, CPA, MBA
is currently Vice President of Finance & CFO at the Milwaukee School of Engineering.  He has held CFO and Controller roles for several manufacturing, distribution, and service businesses with global reach and revenues ranging from start-up to $600 million.  Paul has contributed to the financial success of a private international manufacturer, nonprofit organizations, and businesses in Fortune 500 companies.  He holds an MBA from Washington University in St. Louis.
Jim Merkel                                                                                                                                    Executive Director of Sales & Marketing
Jim Merkel
is an accomplished sales executive with more than 35 years in the forging and metal working industry and 15 years at Scot Forge, where he serves as Executive Director of Sales & Marketing and President of Ringmasters (a Scot Forge joint venture). With a career spanning public, private, private equity-backed and now employee-owned firms, Jim has built and led world-class sales and business development organizations across global manufacturing sectors including aerospace, energy, defense and mineral extraction industries. He specializes in strategic planning, partnerships, branding and market development, and brings deep expertise in selling highly engineered metal components to Fortune 500 clients such as Caterpillar, Komatsu, Boeing, GE and John Deere. He applies his deep industry knowledge not only to drive results but also cultivate the growth of those around him. Jim is known for his strong leadership, mentoring ability and relentless commitment to success, for both his customers and his teams.
James Roth                                                                                                                                    Program Manager, Complex Security Solutions
James Roth
James Roth is a skilled Program Manager currently with Complex Security Solutions, providing deep expertise in operations, business process integration, and cross-functional leadership. Known for his analytical approach and steady, solution-oriented mindset, James has built a career in delivering high-impact results through innovation, process improvement, and collaborative execution. With a strong foundation in financial accountability, stakeholder engagement, and continuous improvement, he guides teams toward predictable and scalable outcomes. Whether managing budgets, implementing system solutions, or leading teams through complex project cycles, James leads with reliability, foresight, and a commitment to excellence.
Marcos Vega, MBA, CTP                                                                                              Senior Vice President & Director of Institutional Markets, BMO Commercial Bank
Marcos
Vega
, MBA, CTP
, is Senior Vice President and Director of Institutional Markets at BMO Commercial Bank. Marcos leads strategic financial solutions for institutional clients in healthcare, education, and non-profit services. Based in the Milwaukee area, Marcos brings a strong background in treasury management and lending, with over 20 years of commercial banking experience.  Marcos earned his finance degree from Marquette University in 2006 and his MBA from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2025. Beyond his professional role, he serves on the board of Meta House and HPGM, advocating for underprivileged communities in southeast Wisconsin. He lives with his wife and 2 children in Elm Grove and is an avid reader and sports fan.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo