Hub for Experiential Learning | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Hub for Experiential Learning
Hub for Experiential Learning
Dedicated to the strategic priority of ensuring all students use real-world projects and initiatives in their fields of study or extracurricular interests to benefit society and the communities where we live and work.
The CREATE Institute is an institutional academic unit on campus that supports experiential learning. Upon opening in 2018, the center strives to create transformative student learning experiences that connect academic, societal and industry needs. Our goal is to ensure that all students use real-world projects in their field of study during their academic career at MSOE to become a leader of character, responsible professional, passionate learner and value creator.
As learning facilitators, the CREATE Institute’s Hub for Experiential Learning is available to help faculty find the best path forward with experiential learning opportunities that benefit all stakeholders (faculty, students, industry/community partners and mentors). We do this by providing faculty, staff and students with research-based best practices in experiential learning and other high-impact practices.
We bring experiential learning opportunities to students:
Through Cove programming
By supporting student organizations interested in community service projects
With our CREATE Student Fellows and Scholars leadership development programs
Students can stop by the CREATE Institute in CC-07 or the Cove in Viets Tower to learn about ways to get involved with project-based experiential learning in their courses and co-curricular activities.
We support faculty interested in experiential learning:
Through faculty development programming
By procuring, vetting and supporting project-based experiential learning opportunities from inception to completion
By managing EduSourced, a tool designed to make it easy to facilitate project-based experiential learning
Are you interested in bringing a real-world project into one of your courses? Contact the
CREATE Institute
for more information.
We partner with non-profits, K-12 schools, and corporations:
To serve the community with real-world projects that allow our students to apply their learning
By inviting industry mentors to work directly with our students
External and internal partners are welcome to
submit projects requests to MSOE through the following portal
. If you are interested in serving as an industry mentor, please
connect with the CREATE Institute.
The Cove is an extension of the CREATE Institute and provides students, faculty, staff and alumni with the opportunity to explore their curiosities.
Learning by doing is at the heart of the MSOE Experience.
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo