Civil Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Civil Engineering
Civil Engineering
Civil engineers are responsible for the planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of the infrastructure necessary to support modern society.
One of three academic programs in MSOE's CAECM Department, our Civil Engineering program gives students the expertise to plan, design and build the systems that make our world function. From the water we drink, to the roads we drive on, graduates of MSOE's Civil Engineering program are making a global difference.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our civil engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
There is no better time than now to pursue a career in civil engineering.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that civil engineers in America will experience employment growth of 24 percent in the next decade, fueled by a significant need for investment in America’s infrastructure.
Graduates of this program learn mathematics, natural science and engineering principles but are also proficient in business, public policy, leadership and team work. As a graduate of MSOE with a degree in Civil Engineering, you’ll be fully prepared to hit the ground running.
Civil engineering students choose to specialize in one of the following areas:
Construction Management
Estimate, schedule and management construction projects.
Environmental and Water Resources Engineering
Plan and design systems for water and wastewater treatment, solid and hazardous waste resource recovery and disposal, air pollution control, and contaminated soil and groundwater remediation.
Structural Engineering
Plan and design structural systems for civil engineering projects such as buildings, bridges and foundations.
Transportation Engineering
Focus on the facilities to transport people and goods, including highways, urban mass transit, airports and railroads.
You may want to consider CVE if you …
Are able to plan, direct and control the activities and work of others
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Are able to visualize drawings or pictures as 3-D objects
Enjoy working in a team environment
Accreditation
The Civil Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Civil Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Civil Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024-25 graduates from our civil engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished civil engineering faculty!
U.S. News & World Report
6th
Best Undergraduate Civil Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. William Gonwa
Program Director
(414) 277-7320
gonwa@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo