Hydraulic Systems Volume 8: Advanced Designs for Mobile Applications | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 8: Advanced Designs for Mobile Applications
Hydraulic Systems Volume 8: Advanced Designs for Mobile Applications
This 4.5-day (27-hour) seminar is targeting industry professionals who are in charge of operating, maintaining, and designing hydraulic systems for Mobile Machines. This seminar covers twenty chapters. The first four chapters cover conceptually the systems that are commonly found on all mobile machines such as hydrostatic transmission, control blocks, steering systems, fan drive systems, hybrid systems, and mobile machine electrification. The rest of the chapters cover different categories of mobile machines such as excavators & shovels, loaders, dozers, graders, road construction machines, aerial work platforms, forklifts & telehandlers, cranes, mining equipment, municipal & hauling trucks, concrete pumps & mixers, tractors & AG machines, tunnel-boring machines, aerospace applications, marine and military applications, and railways applications.
In each category of mobile machines, the seminar presents a brief introduction to equipment, hydraulic-driven functions, hydraulic circuit diagrams, and hybrid or electrified models, if found. Some of the presented systems are just generic, and the others are aided by examples from industry.
Program Overview
Date:
November 10-14, 2025
CEUs:
2.7 |
PDHs:
27
Cost:
$2700 per person.
Who Should Attend
Mechanical and industrial engineers, application engineers, product developers, hydraulic system operators, servicers, troubleshooters, and technical manual editors.
Course Material
Hydraulic Systems Volume 8: Advanced Designs for Mobile Applications
Workbook 8: Advanced Designs for Mobile Applications
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Read a circuit diagram and identify the hydraulic components of a mobile machine.
Identify the hydraulic-powered travel drive function and the implement functions.
Recognize the configuration of the hydrostatic transmission, steering system, cooling fan drive system, and the architecture of the control block.
Identify the applicable methods of power management, energy saving/recovery, hybrid concepts, and electrification approaches if found in a mobile machine.
Course Outline
Chapter 01-Hydrostatic Transmissions
Chapter 02- Control Blocks in Mobile Machines
Chapter 03-Steering and Fan Drive Systems
Chapter 04-Hybrid and Electrified Mobile Machines
Chapter 05-Excavators and Shovels
Chapter 06-Loaders
Chapter 07-Dozers
Chapter 08-Graders
Chapter 09-Road Construction Machines
Chapter 10-Aerial Work Platforms
Chapter 11-Forklifts and Telehandlers
Chapter 12-Cranes
Chapter 13-Mining Equipment
Chapter 14-Municipal and Hauling Trucks
Chapter 15-Concrete Pumps and Mixers
Chapter 16-Tractors and AG Machines
Chapter 17-Tunnel Boring Machines
Chapter 18-Aerospace Applications
Chapter 19-Marine and Military Applications
Chapter 20-Railway Applications
Agenda
Days 1-4
: 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Day 5
: 9 a.m. to noon
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks are provided throughout the day.
Instructors
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Kerrigan Tim
– Director of Fluid Power Institute, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar.
Register
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo