Certificates | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Academic Certificates
MSOE offers a growing list of academic certificates to further your education and career.
Explore the world of artificial intelligence.
Earn a certificate in German in addition to your degree program.
Practicing RNs learn to provide exceptional care to older adults in any health care setting.
Upon completion of this course of study, students will have solid communication skills in Spanish and a strong understanding of Spanish, Latin American and Latinx culture and history.
Develop machine learning and artificial intelligence expertise to take your career to the next level.
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing (AM) is designed for recent graduates and professionals interested in developing a specialization in the design and analysis of components and systems manufactured using modern additive manufacturing techniques.
Business leaders who have a minimum of 3 years of experience in a professional position can build on existing business acumen.
Prepares teachers and administrators in understanding the key relationships between education and business practices.
Develop essential skills for curriculum restructuring, planning and implementation at the school site
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Fluid Power is designed for recent graduates and professionals interested in developing a specialization in fluid power systems.
Mastering LLMs: From Theory to Production
Deep technical content that will enable the student to bring machine learning solutions into production in the their industry.
Designed to develop competencies in a broad range of topics for students who have a MS in Nursing.
The graduate Nursing Executive Leadership and Management Certificate provides introductory concepts required for nursing administrators.
Develop and deploy machine learning models for use on embedded systems that use data from on-board sensors and other sources.
Designed for prospective school business administrators, this program includes management concepts and techniques and the skills needed in collective negotiations and contract management in public schools.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo