Computing Explorers Pathway | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Computing Explorers Pathway
Computing Explorers Pathway
Interested in a career in computing but not sure what path is right for you? MSOE’s Computing Explorers Pathway provides students with the opportunity to explore several computing majors and empowers them to make an informed decision for their futures.
Computing Explorers Pathway Format
The Computing Explorers Pathway is a one-year program. In the first semester of classes, students will receive a broad introduction to computing through courses in programming, digital logic and user experience. In their second semester of classes, students take a software course and an elective course to further explore their interests in computing. Students are introduced to MSOE’s four computing programs, computer science, computer engineering, software engineering and user experience, and decide on the program that is best for them at the end of their first year of study.
A variety of community-building activities are also offered to students in the Computing Explorers Pathway.
Our direct-admit, applications-focused curriculum provides authentic, discipline-specific computing experiences to first-year students. Computing Explorer students use program choice courses to “sample” disciplines to find the right fit. Students are introduced to computer science, computer engineering, software engineering and user experience.
You may want to consider the Computing Explorers Pathway if you…
Enjoy solving problems or playing with computers
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Are prepared to be a lifelong learner to maintain knowledge and skills in the rapidly changing computer industry
Are fascinated by apps and computers and wonder “how does this work?”
Enjoy software product design, game development, web and UX design, hardware or robotics
Read more about MSOE's Computing Explorers Pathway.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Beth Felch, M.S.
Explorer Pathways Program Coordinator
414-277-7367
felch@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo