Mechanical Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical engineering involves the design, development, analysis and control of devices, machines and systems. It is one of the broadest engineering disciplines.
A degree in mechanical engineering prepares students for careers in industries such as energy, environmental, robotics, manufacturing, biotechnology, medical, transportation, aerospace and more. The degree also provides a solid foundation for further graduate studies.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our mechanical engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Electives in MSOE’s mechanical engineering program allow for specialization including mechanical design (solid mechanics, machine dynamics and medical applications), energy systems (renewable energy, aerodynamics, thermal systems and fluid power) and materials/manufacturing (metals, polymers, composites and processing).
You may want to consider ME if you …
Want to design and improve devices that will make the world a better place
Like to take things apart and put them back together
Enjoy using math in a practical way to solve problems
Have a strong interest in computing, and using computers to solve practical problems
Like the mechanics topics (force, motion and energy) in your physics classes
Accreditation
The Mechanical Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Mechanical Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Mechanical Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
94%
We're proud that 94% of 2024–25 graduates from our mechanical engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished ME Faculty!
On Top of the World
Mechanical Engineering
SAE Formula Hybrid
Class of 2017
Mechanical Engineering
Sean Ali
Class of 2017
Mechanical Engineering
Joe Schwall
U.S. News & World Report
11th
Best Undergraduate Mechanical Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Nebojsa Sebastijanovic
Asssociate Professor, ME Program Director
(414) 277-7284
sebastijanovic@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo