Summer Programs at MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
High School Programs
Summer Programs at MSOE
Summer Programs at MSOE
RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR THE 2026 SUMMER PROGRAMS TODAY!
In the summer months, MSOE offers week-long, residential, academic camps for students with a self-reported GPA of a 3.5 or higher and are interested in exploring our degrees.
Registration for each week-long camp will have limited spots and will fill on a first come-first served basis. MSOE will not be accepting group applications. Students who will have graduated from high school prior to the Summer Programs will not be eligible to attend.
Registration for each week-long camp is $1,100.
MSOE's Summer Programs work to provide students with a compelling educational and social experience. By participating in hands-on activities designed around our various majors, students will leave at the end of the week asking two questions:
Is the academic programming I just experienced the right program for me as I start to look at colleges?
Is MSOE the right college for me for when I am ready to decide where to go to school?
Throughout the week, students will work with MSOE faculty, engage with MSOE students, and leaving with a foundation of knowledge in their selected academic areas to help guide them in their upcoming collegiate searches.
MSOE also offers
summer programs for students in grades K-8
.
Not sure where to start? Get your feet wet – Explore nine STEM fields over the course of one week.
The Focus on Health Professions camp is a collaborative effort between MSOE and the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) providing an opportunity for students to explore a variety of healthcare programs offered by each.
Take a deeper dive into your future career. Focus on a single field for a week!
This week-long residential camp will give young women entering 10th through 12th grades an opportunity to explore 10 different engineering disciplines. This camp is similar to the explore camp but has a special focus on women in STEM fields.
Rising Raiders Scholars Program is a four-year cohort-based program focused on academic exploration.
Do you have general questions about Summer programs? Take a look at our page of frequently asked questions. If you have further questions contact us today!
Register for Summer Programs
Register today to ensure your seat.
Register
More Questions? Please contact us!
MSOE Summer Programs
(800) 332-6763
summerprograms@msoe.edu
Looking for K-8 Summer Programs?
See more options aimed at students in K-8.
Click Here
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo