Center for Professional Education | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Center for Professional Education
The CPE is committed to continuously growing and enhancing program offerings that support the diverse needs and interests of you and your workforce.
The Center for Professional Education (CPE) at MSOE is a leader in continuing education and training, creating opportunities for professional upskilling; earning industry-recognized credentials to support career advancement and increase earning potential; gaining technical knowledge in rapidly changing fields; and satisfying professional licensure requirements.
MSOE's Center for Professional Education has the programs to help you learn it and lead it.
Explore Our Professional Development Opportunities
Learn live from an instructor in-person or online via Microsoft Teams. PDHs and CEUs are available for all programs.
Through our MSOE at Work program, we partner with organizations like yours to strengthen workforce capability through consulting, customized training, and applied learning experiences. Designed around your specific goals, our offerings deliver practical, skills-focused learning that employees can immediately apply on the job: driving performance, innovation, and long-term growth.
Make sure you have the PDHs you need to renew your license by July 31, 2026, with these continuing education programs designed for professional engineers.
This series consists of six 4-hour online self-paced workshops exploring how A.I. can be applied in customer service, HR, sales and marketing, accounting and finance, IT operations, and cybersecurity. Each workshop costs $99 and can be completed anytime between March 2 and May 15, 2026.
The A.I. Professional Learning Series was developed, promoted, and delivered through a collaborative partnership between the CPE, the MKE Tech Hub Coalition, and Waukesha County Technical College (WCTC), with funding provided by HERA (Higher Education Regional Alliance) and the US Department of Education Microcredential Grant Project.*
* HERA Microcredential Grant funding provided by US Department of Education: Award P116Z24014917
Browse Programs by Category
Click the links to view all available and upcoming programs (instructor-led and self-paced) within a given category.
A.I. / Machine Learning
Project Management
Business, Operations & Efficiency
Leadership Development
Professional Skills Development
Technical Skills Development
Fluid Power
Professional Certificate in Business Essentials (Mini-MBA)
Explore available conferences, gain new skills and network.
Center for Professional Education
(414) 277-7530
cpe@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo