Presenter Bios | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Presenter Bios
Presenter Bios
The Applied Technology Center's speakers are leaders within the fluid power industry.
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– For 20 years, Dr. Medhat Khalil has worked as the Director of Professional Education & Research Development at the Applied Technology Center, Milwaukee School of Engineering, Milwaukee, WI, USA. He has a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Military Technical College (MTC), Cairo, Egypt. He received his master’s degree in mechanical engineering from Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt, and holds a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering and Post-Doctoral Industrial Research Fellowship from Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He has authored several textbooks in the field of fluid power, participated in many technical conferences and published several reviewed technical papers. He has been certified by the International Fluid Power Society (IFPS) as: Certified Fluid Power Hydraulic Specialist (CFPHS) and Certified Fluid Power Accredited Instructor (CFPAI).
Medhat is a member of many grand institutions such as Center for Compact and Efficient Fluid Power Engineering Research Center (CCEFP), listed Fluid Power Consultant by the National Fluid Power Association (NFPA), and listed professional instructor by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and National American Die Casting Association (NADCA). Medhat has been assigned as the chair of the education committee for the International Fluid Power Exposition since 2017. Medhat has a balanced academic and industrial experience. He developed and taught countless courses for industry professionals worldwide (USA, Canada, India, Mexico, KSA, UAE). He has worked for several world-wide recognized industrial organizations such as Rexroth in Germany and CAE in Canada. He has designed several hydraulic systems and developed analytical and educational software. Medhat also has vast experience in modeling and simulation of dynamic systems using Matlab-Simulink. Medhat was the designer and founder of the Universal Fluid Power Trainers. Medhat was the recipient of the “Otto Maha Pioneers in Fluid Power” award in 2012 and the “IFPS-Hall of Fame” award in 2021.
Paul Michael
– Research Chemist at the Milwaukee School of Engineering Fluid Power Institute. He has 35-plus years of experience formulating and testing lubricants. Paul is active in ASTM, ISO, and NFPA standards committees, serves as a lubrication subject matter expert for the US Military, and is principal investigator for energy efficient hydraulic fluids in the Center for Compact and Efficient Fluid Power. He has published over 40 papers on energy efficient fluids, hydraulic fluid compatibility, filtration, particle characterization, and machinery lubrication.
Dr. Daniel Williams
– Professor; MSOE’s Mechanical Engineering Department.  He earned his Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Platteville and his Master’s Degree and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  Dan has over 20 years of industry engineering experience.  He worked for two years as a design engineer at Snap-On Tools Corporation in Kenosha, Wisconsin.  Following graduate studies, Dan worked for 18 years at John Deere’s Construction & Forestry Division in Dubuque, Iowa, where he specialized in machine systems simulation—hydraulics, drive train, rigid body dynamics and controls—and control design.  Dan has also been a member of the full-time faculty at Loras College in Dubuque, where he taught courses in the Electromechanical Engineering program for five years.
David J. Spitzenberger, CFPS, ME, MBA -
David Spitzenberger has been designing equipment and fluid power systems for over 48 years. He has extensive experience in mechanical engineering and product sales of both industrial and mobile equipment. He has worked for several manufacturers such as the Falk Corporation, Regal-Beloit (Grove Gear Division) and Parker Hannifin. He worked for 17 years at Miller Fluid Power and Parker Hannifin as a Sales Engineer. He is now retired but enjoys training and mentoring Sales Engineers, Designers, Technicians and Customer Service individuals in understanding the design, function and automation of all types of power transmission and fluid power equipment. He is an Adjunct Instructor for MSOE (Milwaukee School of Engineering) and WCTC (Waukesha County Technical College), teaching courses on Basic Fluid Power, Maintenance, Safety, Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo