Computer Science | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Computer Science
Computer Science
Students will learn on the leading edge of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) revolution, developing skills to solve problems using algorithms, applied mathematics, and AI in a hands-on environment working on real problems with faculty who have industry experience.
MSOE computer science students will learn in AI, big data, and robotics labs in Diercks Hall while leveraging Rosie, MSOE’s GPU supercomputer to support large, real-world applied exercises.  Students will also work on capstone projects with industry sponsors to further gain experience aligned with industry demands.  MSOE’s computer science degree prepares students for careers in a wide variety of computing areas including: app development, data engineering, data science, software engineering, systems programming, cyber security, machine learning, and many more.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our computer science degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Computer science is one of the fastest growing, highest paying professions with impacts in virtually every corner of society. You’ll leave MSOE with a strong core skill set in applied mathematics, programming languages, algorithms and artificial intelligence.
You may want to consider CS at MSOE if you...
Enjoy solving problems or playing with computers
Find bugs or errors in software and think “I would have done this differently”
Are fascinated by apps and wonder “how does this work?”
Enjoy logic and are able to do mathematics with precision
Are prepared to be a lifelong learner to keep up with trends in the rapidly-changing computer industry
Enjoy exploring the tradeoffs between multiple ways to solve a problem
Appreciate understanding and expressing the steps to solve a problem
Are intrigued by artificial intelligence or machine learning
Hear about the growing influence of AI in our everyday lives with MSOE faculty and student Ethan Hindes in MSOE's podcast, Rethink What's Possible:
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming prominent in more and more industries each day, including health care. Listen to Dr. Sheila Ross, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department chairperson; Dr. John Bukowy, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department assistant professor; and student Ethan Hindes discuss the advancements of AI, its impact on their research on kidneys with the Medical College of Wisconsin, and how Hindes found his way to computer science.
Accreditation
The Computer Science (BS) program is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Computer Science.
1 / 8
What Makes a Supercomputer "Super?" Dr. Derek Riley, program director for MSOE's B.S. in computer science degree, explains the differences in configuration between your laptop or desktop computer, and MSOE's GPU-powered supercomputer.
2 / 8
AI is changing our lives in many ways, ways in which we may have never even considered or imagined. I am AI, powered by NVIDIA deep learning and brilliant minds everywhere. (Video approved for use by NVIDIA.)
3 / 8
Holodeck. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
4 / 8
Mars 2030. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
5 / 8
AI used in cars. The 2013 Audi A3 Interior. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
6 / 8
NVIDIA Telsa V100. (Image courtesy of NVIDIA)
7 / 8
NVIDIA Nebulae. (image courtesy of NVIDIA)
8 / 8
Emerald NVIDIA GPU Cluster. (image courtesy of NVIDIA)
Career Outcomes
90%
We're proud that 90% of 2024-25 graduates from our computer science program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Read more about MSOE's B.S. in Computer Science.
Get to know our distinguished computer science faculty!
Learn more about how to collaborate, while avoiding plagiarism, in your software development courses at MSOE with the CSSE computing code of conduct.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Derek Riley
Program Director
(414) 277-2269
riley@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo