Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers
Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers
Certificate Information
Students will study key financial concepts, identify financial decisions, and learn to analyze an organization’s status using accounting methods, financial tools, and techniques. Engage in budgeting and financial reporting techniques, inventory control, purchasing, capital project planning, and debt service management. Additionally, students will develop knowledge in the management of school operations, food services, school transportation, and plant maintenance. Designed for prospective school business administrators, this program includes management concepts and techniques and the skills needed in collective negotiations and contract management in public schools. The program will deepen an understanding of the school business administrator roles and responsibilities by integrating theoretical and research course work with practice and reflection on development as a school business leader. Students will conduct an action research project and lead efforts that contribute to progress on a financial and operational process in a school district or consortium.
Required courses:
BUS 5100 – Practicum: School Business Administrator
BUS 5300 – Advanced Finance and Accounting: School Business Administrator
BUS 5600 – Operations and Auxiliary Services: School Business Administrator
Admission Requirements
Must have earned an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution.
Documents Needed
Official undergraduate transcripts
Resume
Read more about the Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about the Graduate Certificate for School Business Managers? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo