Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
Engineering
M.S. in Engineering
This program emphasizes the further development of knowledge and skills to enhance the productivity of the practicing engineer.
MSOE's Master of Science in Engineering program enables graduate engineering professionals to further their problem solving skills through the application of advanced engineering principles and methods. The strength of this program is in its flexibility. The program offers students the opportunity to advance their quantitative skills through a series of modeling-based courses and provides for their choice of specialty courses in:
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Machine Learning
Courses are taught by faculty with extensive industry experience and academic credentials.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
In-person classes
30 credits
Personal statement
Official undergraduate transcripts
One letter of recommendation
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum Format
The program is designed for individuals who hold bachelor degrees in mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, electrical engineering, or other closely related areas. Each student works with the program director to plan a course of study tailored to their needs; accommodating full-time or part-time enrollment.
Students can choose to complete a 6-credit capstone project or 6-credits of additional electives.
Typically, a total of 30 graduate credits is required to complete the program, but degree requirements may vary depending upon the type of bachelor’s degree.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the CAECM Early Entry Master’s program can apply here.
The Graduate Certificate in Fluid Power prepares students to develop in-depth engineering skills in the fields of hydraulics and controls.
The Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing is designed for professionals interested in developing a specialization in the design and analysis of components and systems manufacturing through modern additive manufacturing techniques.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Engineering graduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished engineering faculty!
Class of 2024
M.S. in Engineering
Shubham Daler
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Dr. Mohammad Mahinfalah
Program Director
(414) 277-7546
mahinfalah@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo