Program Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Short-Term Programs
Doing Business with China
Program Information
Doing Business with China: Program Information
China is endless in its depth and complexity.
Key Learning Objectives
Gain an understanding for the past, current and future importance of China within the global market
Appreciate the implications of history, politics, and culture to conducting business
Identify and appraise distinct global operating strategies
Learn market stratification tactics and assess the relationships of the market, product, global operations and marketing strategies
Discuss supply chain management
Explore specific issues related to managing in Asia
Compare and contrast challenges and strategies related to recruiting, developing and retaining employees
Explore generational and regional differences, while assessing methods to motivate employees
Identify and discuss ethical issues related to managing in Asia
Develop professional networks through contacts established through the course
Gain leadership experience to promote character, confidence, efficiency and effectiveness in international business
Doing Business with China Partners
Corporate partnerships distinguish this program. This program is made possible through domestic and international leaders that share knowledge, insights and resources.  2019 Partners are pending. Past partners include:
Past partners include:
Clifton-Addison
Modine
Cisco
Oshkosh Corporation
Beijing Automotive
Perkins Coie, LLP
Douglas Dynamics
Rockwell Automation
GE/GE Healthcare
Texas Instruments
Dr. C. Kelly Lawrence Ottman
Professor, Rader School of Business
414 (303)-9339 (cell phone)
ottman@msoe.edu
Dr. Ottman has extensive travel experience and has taught in China.
Doing Business with China Application
Application deadline is: January 21, 2019!
Download the application!
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo