MSOE Online MBA | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Online Graduate Programs
Online MBA Programs
MSOE Online MBA
MSOE Online MBA
Milwaukee School of Engineering's online MBA degree, rooted in applied learning and course work, is designed to address challenges sourced directly from our corporate partners. As a student in the MBA program, you will apply what you’re learning to your current professional work, whether you are solving problems at your company or in your industry. Upon graduation, you will come away as an effective practitioner, ready to achieve your professional goals.
In this program, you will benefit from rich faculty/student interactions that are the hallmark of an MSOE education. MSOE professors possess world class academic credentials, have substantial business and technical leadership experience, and are outstanding educators.
Online MBA Program Details
Offered 100% online
37 credits
Choose from 3 specializations
Complete in 18 months with full-time study or 2 years with part-time study
Earn your online MBA with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Online MBA Program Outcomes
The MSOE online MBA is designed to develop competencies in a broad range of topics. You will:
Apply what you learn to your real-world challenges throughout the program through application-oriented, project-based learning
Be a change agent—a driver of organizational improvement and goal fulfillment
Manage and leverage human resource capabilities and stakeholder relationships
Master the traits and skills of effective leaders
Online MBA Specializations
Choose from the general MBA track or one of the following specializations to tailor your educational experience to your professional goals.
General Online MBA Track
The general MBA track is focused on strategic business functions, organizational leadership and the effective application of business knowledge by organizational and business leaders. Course topics include statistics and data analysis, innovation and entrepreneurship, finance, supply chain and more. Step up as a leader or manager within your organization, or take on a new entrepreneurial challenge.
Online MBA in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics
The analytics specialization prepares you to make data-driven decisions through courses in predictive analytics, data visualization and more. This specialization imparts “hard to find” skills that employers are looking for in today’s workforce.
If you want to drive change at an organization, the MSOE Online MBA in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics is for you.
Online MBA in New Product Management
The new product management specialization provides you with a framework to enhance an organization’s ability to identify, develop and deploy new products and services. You will learn how to apply the tools and knowledge needed to find the products and/or services that are aligned with the unique strengths and position of an organization. This program will also prepare you to identify and capitalize on both domestic and international product markets.
Anonymous MBA alumnus, participant in 2023 MSOE survey
Explore the online MBA curriculum overview for each of the specializations.
Get details on the admissions requirements for the MSOE Online MBA.
MSOE’s Rader School of Business MBA in Education Leadership (MBA EL) is the first program of its kind in the U.S., combining a rigorous MBA curriculum with unique courses tailored to school principals and aspiring school leaders. This program applies traditional business principles to advance education. This is the only MBA that gives you the ability to earn multiple Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction licenses.
Inquiry Form
Earn your online MBA with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Fill out inquiry form
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Dan Pavletich
Graduate Program Director
(414) 277-2486
pavletich@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo