MBA in Education Leadership | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Business
MBA in Education Leadership
MBA in Education Leadership
MSOE’s MBA in Education Leadership is transforming how school leaders are prepared for today’s challenges. Rooted in character formation and grounded in the principles of effective leadership, this innovative program offers a one-of-a-kind curriculum designed specifically for principals and aspiring leaders who want to make a lasting impact in education.
The program develops best business practices including vision setting, finance and project management. It provides opportunities for practical applications of these skills outside of the classroom, and places a focus on the values that help leaders develop strong character among their students, colleagues and the greater community. The MBA in Education Leadership program helps transform educators into motivated and influential community builders.
The MBAEL program is endorsed by Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction (DPI) for the WI Administrator – Principal (5051) license, Director of Instructor (5010) license, and School Business Manager (5008) license.  If you will be seeking a principal license, eligibility for a Wisconsin teaching license is required.  For more information about this requirement please review information on DPI’s website linked
here
.  If you have any questions regarding this requirement, please contact the program director, Michele Trawicki (trawickim@msoe.edu)
*STEM designated program for international students*
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online asynchronous
37 credits
Official undergraduate transcripts
Resume
Personal statement
Admissions Process
Submit application online
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via student portal or email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your Enrollment Deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Gain access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Attend orientation! (in person and virtual options available approximately two weeks before the start of the semester)
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our MBA in Education Leadership degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
1 / 5
Carolina Hernandez
2 / 5
Sapphire Canser
3 / 5
Peter Reynolds
4 / 5
Elijah Nicks
5 / 5
Building leaders. Transforming futures.
Read more about MSOE's MBA in Education Leadership graduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished Rader School of Business faculty.
“
The MBA in Education Leadership is a powerful opportunity for aspiring administrators. This innovative program combines business insight with proven practices in school leadership, preparing you to lead with confidence, vision, and impact. I love being involved in this program and inspiring future leaders—the connections you’ll build here will last a lifetime."
Michele Trawicki
MBA Education Leadership Program Director
Retired Elementary School Principal
Learn about the components required to be endorsed for a Wisconsin administrative license in the areas of Principal, Director of Instruction and/or Business Administrator.
Fee may be paid with a credit card or checking account.
Have additional questions? We can help with that! Send us an email and we'll be sure to get right back to you.
Class of 2020
MBA in Education Leadership
Barb Dilosa
Class of 2019
MBA in Education Leadership
Lauren Bremer
Class of 2022
MBA in Education Leadership
Scott Hanson
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008. Below is an indication of whether the
MBA in Education Leadership
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all U.S. states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
WI
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, GU, HI, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WV, WY
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Michele Trawicki
MBAEL Program Director
(414) 277-7286
trawickim@msoe.edu
Graduates in Leadership Roles within the First Year
> 50%
More than half of the MSOE MBA EL graduates are in leadership roles within the first year of graduation.
Apply Now
Request Information
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo