Online Machine Learning Programs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Online Graduate Programs
Online Machine Learning Programs
Online Machine Learning Programs
Level-up your career with MSOE's online machine learning offerings.
Hear directly from Dr. RJ Nowling, associate professor and program director at MSOE, about how the experienced faculty make the difference in the online machine learning master's and certificate programs.
Grow your expertise in machine learning and AI concepts. This comprehensive program is carefully designed for professionals looking to deepen their knowledge, skills and leadership in this exciting area of technology.
Born from industry demand, this focused certificate program is designed for recent graduates and professionals and will prepare you to leverage AI and machine learning domains to create innovative, data-driven solutions to problems.
Mastering LLMs: From Theory to Production
Deep technical content that will enable the student to bring machine learning solutions into production in the their industry.
Develop and deploy machine learning models for use on embedded systems that use data from on-board sensors and other sources.
Get a Sneak Peek of a Machine Learning Class!
Want an inside look at one of the online machine learning classes offered at MSOE? Just complete a short form, and you'll receive a video overview led by program director and assistant professor, Dr. RJ Nowling.
Get a sneak peek
Inquiry Form
Earn your online master's degree or certificate in machine learning with MSOE. Just fill out the short inquiry form and our admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Fill out inquiry form
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Dr. RJ Nowling
Associate Professor/Program Director
(414) 277-7318
nowling@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo