Professional Certificate in Business Essentials (Mini-MBA) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Professional Certificate in Business Essentials (Mini-MBA)
Professional Certificate in Business Essentials (Mini-MBA)
Get the fundamental business acumen and leadership skills you need to succeed.
Testimonials
"The MSOE Mini-MBA has given me
practical, immediately usable tools
that
strengthened my confidence as a leader
and
elevated the way I approach complex projects
. Each module pushed me to
think more strategically, communicate more clearly, and create real impact in my role
. I’m grateful for how this program has supported my growth."
Nicole Vrabel, Senior IT & ERP Recruiter, GlobalSource IT
"The MSOE Mini-MBA certificate program was
one of the best investments I have made for my career growth
. The
curriculum was clear, relevant, and delivered in a way I could apply to my job immediately
. The instructors were
incredibly knowledgeable
, making the entire experience
engaging and enjoyable
."
Dominika Piwowarczyk, Senior Investment Operations Specialist, Northwestern Mutual
"The MSOE Mini-MBA program provided a
structured overview of essential business principles
, offering
practical knowledge in areas like finance and strategic management
. The format
effectively delivered relevant content
that I have been able to apply in my current role. Overall, the program delivered a
solid return on the time invested
by providing a
functional business foundation
."
Matt Luckow, President, B83 Testing & Engineering, Inc.
Background
Funded by HERA (Higher Education Regional Alliance) and the US Department of Education Microcredential Grant Project*, the
Professional Certificate in Business Essentials
(also referred to as the Mini-MBA) is a short-term, noncredit, microcredential program specifically designed to equip working professionals from a variety of industries (particularly those in technical fields) with fundamental business knowledge and skills for immediate real-world application.
Dates
Tuesdays and Thursdays, February 17 through May 14, 2026.
CEUs/PDHs Available
5 CEUs / 50 PDHs.
Delivery Format/Modality
The Mini-MBA combines online live sessions (1 hour per module session, 2 module sessions every week on Tuesday and Thursday) and online self-paced classwork (approximately 1 hour per module session), and will take up to 50 hours to complete.
Subject Areas
The Mini-MBA is split into six targeted, skills-focused learning modules. The dates listed beside each module indicate the 1-hour, online synchronous sessions.
Module 1: Leadership and Strategic Thinking
(Tuesdays, February 17, 24, and March 3, 10)
Learn and apply the tools to see beyond your day-to-day responsibilities, generate actionable long-term strategies that suit your competitive landscape, and lead your team through the successful execution of your vision.
Time: 2 - 3 p.m. CT
Instructor:
Sean Ebert
Module 2: Supervisory Management and Team Leadership
(Thursdays, February 19, 26, and March 5, 12)
Explore foundational management theories and examine how supervisory styles impact team performance, while addressing modern challenges like remote work, diversity and inclusion, and emerging workplace technologies.
Time: 4 - 5 p.m. CT
Instructor:
Bianca Reyes
Module 3: Financial Literacy and Budgeting
(Tuesdays, March 24, 31, and April 7, 14)
Learn the basics of budgeting, financial statements, and the metrics businesses frequently use to evaluate business performance, drive decision-making, and improve the financial health of the organization.
Time: 2 - 3 p.m. CT
Instructor:
Sean Ebert
Module 4: Organizational Behavior and Change Management
(Thursdays, March 26, and April 2, 9, 16)
Explore how people, teams, and culture drive change. This practical short module helps professionals apply change tools and navigate today’s workplace – including working with A.I. as a powerful new team member.
Time: 4 - 5 p.m. CT
Instructor:
Ruth Barratt, Ph.D.
Module 5: Project Management and Agile Methodologies
(Tuesdays, April 21, 28, and May 5, 12)
Master project management by exploring both traditional and Agile methods. Through real-world applications and interactive exercises, you will gain essential skills to plan, communicate, and lead successful projects with confidence.
Time: 10 - 11 a.m. CT
Instructor:
Patricia Kramer
Module 6: Data Analytics & Business Intelligence
(Thursdays, April 23, 30, and May 7, 14)
Learn how to combine A.I. with modern BI tools to extract insights, automate dashboards, and communicate stories. Master Data Visualization 3.0 with real-world use cases, Tableau, and ChatGPT.
Time: 9 - 10 a.m. CT
Instructor:
Naveen Kankate
Audience
Employees who:
Have been defined as high-potential and would benefit from an enhanced business acumen.
Have advanced into management roles but lack experience in primary job functions (budgeting, supervisory management, project management, etc.).
Aspire to become managers but have limited leadership and management training.
Are interested in pursuing an MBA but feel they lack the foundational knowledge and/or skills required to be successful.
Program Cost
$2,999 (There is a 20% discount available for any registrations received by
Monday, Feb. 2,
reducing the cost further to
$2,399.20
per participant. Choose 'Early Bird Discount' from the drop-down menu when checking out to have the discount applied.)
Sign up
before
Monday, Feb. 2:
In addition to the Early Bird Discount, which reduces the cost by 20%, you have the option to pay via installment plan. You will be charged an initial amount of
$380
, followed by
4 equal installments recurring every 30 days
(starting a month after you complete your transaction), totalling $
2,019.20
.
Sign up
after
Monday, Feb. 2:
Pay via installment plan at checkout. You will be charged an initial amount of
$380
, followed by
4 equal installments recurring every 30 days
(starting a month after you complete your transaction), totalling
$2,619
.
If you enroll using an installment plan and withdraw fewer than 10 business days before the program start date, you are responsible for the full program cost.
Financial Assistance
A limited number of scholarships are available. To formally request scholarship support, contact Dr. George Kroeninger,  CPE Executive Director, at
kroeninger@msoe.edu
. The deadline for all scholarship requests is
Monday, Feb. 2, 2026,
at 11:59 p.m. CT.
Register here
*HERA Microcredential Grant funding provided by US Department of Education: Award P116Z24014917
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo