Hydraulic Systems Volume 7: Modeling and Simulation for Application Engineers | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 7: Modeling and Simulation for Application Engineers
Hydraulic Systems Volume 7: Modeling and Simulation for Application Engineers
Modeling and simulation techniques are essential tools for dynamic systems design and production. This seminar introduces an overview of common mathematical modeling techniques in t-domain and s-domain, various types of physical systems, and challenges of modeling them.
This 27-hour (5-day) seminar adopts lumped modeling technique, using Matlab-Simulink, to model discrete hydraulic components with the least amount of design parameters, just based on the static and dynamic characteristics published by the component manufacturer. Components models can be recharacterized and used repeatedly in system models. More than 60 models are built. The seminar provides comprehensive explanation on how these models are structured, validated, and used for analyzing system performance.
Program Overview
Dates:
August 18-22, 2025
CEUs:
2.7 |
PDHs:
27
Cost:
$2,700 per person.
Seminar Number:
70306
Who Should Attend
Hydraulic component designers, application engineers, system integrators, electrohydraulic motion control engineers, and end users of fluid power components and systems.
Seminar attendees receive a copy of
“Hydraulic Systems Volume 7: Modeling and Simulation for Application Engineers”
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Identify the best method to convert the published static and dynamic characteristics of a hydraulic components into a solvable mathematical model
Convert the mathematical model into a simulation model using MATLAB®/Simulink®
Debug and validate a simulation model based on existing or experimentally developed performance
Form a hydraulic system model by assembling hydraulic components models
Use a validated model to analyzes system performance
Program Details
Course Outline
Chapter 01: Introduction to Physical Systems Modeling and Simulation
Chapter 02: Modeling and Simulation of First-Order Dynamic Systems
Chapter 03: Modeling and Simulation of Second-Order Dynamic Systems
Chapter 04: Hydraulic Components Modeling Approaches
Chapter 05: Modeling of Fluid Properties
Chapter 06: Modeling of Fluid Conductors
Chapter 07: Modeling of Hydraulic Pumps
Chapter 08: Modeling of Hydraulic Motors
Chapter 09: Modeling of Hydraulic Cylinders
Chapter 10: Modeling of Hydraulic Valves
Chapter 11: Modeling of Hydraulic Control Systems
Agenda
Days 1-4:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Day 5:
9 a.m. to noon
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks are provided throughout the day.
Laboratory Sessions
Lab09:
Pump Static Characteristic Measuring
Lab10:
Pump Step Response Measuring
Lab11:
Hydraulic Motor U-n Static Characteristics
Lab12:
Identifying Hydraulic Motor Dynamics
Lab13:
Identifying Horizontal Cylinder Dynamics
Lab14:
Proportional Valve Flow Gain Measuring
Lab15:
Servo Valve Flow Gain Measuring
Lab16:
EH Position Controlled Hydraulic Cylinder Step Response
L
ab17:
EH Position Controlled Hydraulic Cylinder Frequency Response
Lab18:
EH Speed Controlled Hydraulic Motor Step Response
Lab19:
EH Speed Controlled Hydraulic Motor Frequency Response
Instructors
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Previous Session Evaluations
Hydraulic Systems Modeling seminar (77077)
Hydraulic Systems Modeling seminar (70200)
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo