MSN Common Questions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Health
Nursing
MSN Common Questions
Common Questions About the MSN Program
Below are frequently asked questions regarding the application & admissions process and general questions about our MSN and post-master's certificate programs.
Jump to:
General Questions
|
Admissions Questions
|
Courses and Clinical Questions
|
Transfer Credit Questions
|
Cost Questions
General Questions
What is pre-licensure?
Pre-licensure refers to the courses a student takes during their nursing undergraduate degree.
What happens if I do not pass the NCLEX exam?
Students must pass the NCLEX exam as a condition of continuing in the MSN program.  Students who have not passed NCLEX by the time of enrollment will work with the program director on an alternate plan of study after repeating the exam and obtaining licensure.
Can I work during the MSN program?
We do not recommend full time employment while enrolled in full time course work due to the time requirements of classes, clinical, and practicum. We can accommodate part-time enrollment throughout the program for individuals who are working full-time, but a plan must be created with the program director.
Do I have access to the resources available on campus?
Yes, all students have access to all the resources available to students on campus including student support, the library, fitness center, and career services.
Can I earn a master’s degree in nursing without a BSN?
To be eligible for a MSN at MSOE, you must already have a BSN degree.
How many days per week will I have to go to the program site?
All graduate courses are blended courses that meet synchronously and asynchronously throughout the term (dates will be indicated in the course schedule). For MSN students, there are two in-person immersion experiences where students have to be on MSOE’s campus. For post-master's certificate students, there is one in-person immersion experience where students must be on on-campus.
Admissions Questions
Do I have to take the GRE for entry into the master's program?
No, the GRE is not required.
What is the minimum cumulative GPA required for the MSN programs?
The required GPA for all MSN programs is 3.0.  Students with a GPA between 2.7 to <3.0 may be considered following a formal interview.
How do I apply?
You can submit an application through NursingCAS online
here
.
What is the admission deadline?
MSOE has a rolling admission date. You can start in the MSN program full time (9 credits) in the fall semester or part-time (3 or 6 credits) in the fall or spring semester.
The post-master's certificate program starts in the spring of each year.
*Spaces are limited in each cohort and filled on a first-come-first-serve basis.
Courses and Clinical Questions
How many clinical rotations hours can I expect to complete?
The Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner MSN program and the post-master's certificate are both  600 hours of practicum.
T
he Nursing Executive Leadership and Management track is 240 hours of practicum,.
Where are graduate practicums held?
Students are required to find their own practicum sites. Although we have excellent local community resources, it is the student's responsibility to find their own preceptorships.
I currently work as an NP. Can my work hours count as my practicum hours?
Work hours cannot be counted as practicum hours.
What treatment modalities will we learn in the PMHNP track?
Modalities covered in the curriculum include: Medication Management, Solution-focused Brief Therapy, Motivational Interviewing, Family Systems Theory, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.
Can I do my practicum hours at my place of employment?
Yes, however, you cannot count work hours towards practicum.
Transfer Credit Questions
Does MSOE accept transfer credit to graduate programs?
Yes, we will accept up to 12 graduate transfer credits with a syllabi and a formal review by the program director.
How many programs starts are available each year?
All full time MSN programs start in the fall term. Students may start in the spring term as a part-time student.  Post-master's certificate students start in the spring of each year.
Cost Questions
What is tuition?
You can find the cost of tuition and fees
here
. The cost of tuition for our graduate programs is per credit.
What software and technology are available?
At the graduate level, students may use their own computer or lease an MSOE laptop for an additional cost.  All registered students have access to the needed software and programs.
Is financial aid available?
At this time we do not offer scholarships or grants for our graduate programs. Students may be eligible for federal loans by filling out their FAFSA or utilize external scholarships/funding opportunities to be applied to their account.
Jump to:
General Questions
|
Admissions Questions
|
Courses and Clinical Questions
|
Transfer Credit Questions
|
Cost Questions
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo