Minors | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Minors
Academic Minors
From Psychology to Finance, MSOE offers a variety of minors to accompany and complement your major.
The biomedical engineering minor is designed for students in other engineering programs who are interested in medical device or health-related applications.
This minor is designed to provide additional content in business analysis and business process improvement.
The Minor in Business Entrepreneurship provides content relevant to developing entrepreneurial ideas into businesses.
Today’s interdisciplinary research teams require individuals with a diverse background. Gain a more advanced understanding of chemistry and augment your degree program with a Minor in Chemistry.
For non-majors, adding the computer engineering minor can increase skillset and make graduates more attractive to potential employers as well as enhance preparedness for graduate school.
The cybersecurity minor provides students with exposure to the technical skills necessary to design and engineer modern, resilient, cybersecure products.
The data science minor fosters expertise in software development, data analysis, computational science, machine learning, statistics, high-performance computing and AI that complements a student’s domain expertise from their major.
The electrical engineering minor complements many other engineering majors, providing a comprehensive circuits foundation and the option to gain depth in key topical electrical engineering areas.
The finance minor offered at MSOE will give any undergraduate student an edge in the workforce, especially for those who are going into a business or economic focused industries.
MSOE’s School of Nursing’s gerontology minor prepares nursing students to provide exceptional care to older adults in any health care setting.
Augment your technical major with a Minor in Management. You’ll gain a basic understanding of business and management principles that will help you to stand out in the workplace.
Anyone interested in marketing, entrepreneurship or both should consider pursuing this minor. You’ll learn valuable skills that will serve you well in your career, whether you own your own business or dream of climbing the corporate ladder.
Strengthen your major, make your degree more attractive to potential employers, and/or enhance your preparedness for graduate school with a Minor in Mathematics from MSOE.
Get a stronger understanding of this field, and how to apply it to your career, with a Minor in Physics.
A Minor in Psychology can help you understand human behavior, motivation and organizational behavior. Put this knowledge to your advantage as you embark on your career in diverse and rapidly changing workplaces.
The MSOE Minor in Supply Chain Management will give graduates strong business skills in a globalized economy. Courses in areas such as production management, international logistics, leadership and finance provide a solid foundation for graduates going into the workforce.
Learn how to communicate clearly and concisely, improve your public speaking and more with a Minor in Technical Communication.
Gain additional insight into the skills needed to succeed in management, as well as a deeper understanding of business dynamics.
The UX minor at MSOE provides students with fundamental knowledge and skills in the fields of human-computer interaction, user interface design, user experience design and research.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo