MSOE MBA | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Business
MSOE MBA
Master of Business Administration
The MSOE MBA is an innovative program that is preparing leaders for the new frontiers of technology. Through an integrated curriculum, you’ll be able to leverage A.I. and develop leadership competencies through a combination of core content and field projects.
You can tailor the MBA to fit your career goals by choosing one of three specializations: Advanced Business Strategy Using A.I. and Analytics, Education Leadership, or New Product Management. With online classes, MSOE's MBA program serves students in a variety of industry backgrounds. Classes focus on strategic business functions, organizational leadership, and the effective application of business knowledge and A.I. technologies. Through strategic MBA content and analysis of leading-edge business cases, you will apply your learning to solve real problems in your business or organization.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online asynchronous
Classes are in 7-week subterms
37 credits
Official undergraduate transcripts
Resume
Personal statement
Samantha Brooker '2020, MBA
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our MBA degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Admissions Process
Submit application online.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or mail.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your Enrollment Deposit to secure your spot in the program and gain access to pre-program modules.
Find more information here
.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Read more about MSOE's MBA program.
An MBA in Advanced Business Strategy Using A.I. and Analytics will prepare you to make data-driven decisions through courses in predictive analytics, data visualization and more.
MSOE’s MBA in Education Leadership is an innovative program that prepares a new breed of school leader. Character formation and education leadership are the tenants that guide the program, which features unique curricula tailored to school principals and aspiring school leaders.
The MBA in New Product Management provides students a framework to enhance an organization’s ability to effectively identify, develop and deploy new products and services. You will learn how to apply the tools and knowledge needed to find the products and/or services that are aligned with the unique strengths and position of an organization. The program will prepare you to identify and capitalize on both domestic and international product markets. For engineering professionals, MSOE also offers a Master of Science in Engineering Management with an emphasis on New Product Management.
1 / 2
Thanks to the generosity of the Agustin A. Ramirez Jr. Family Foundation and in collaboration with the Medical College of Wisconsin, in 2015 the Ramirez Fellowship was born.
2 / 2
As an applied program which goes beyond theory, to real world applications, an MBA in Analytics from MSOE prepares you to make data-driven decisions through courses in predictive analytics, data visualization and more.
Get to know our Business Faculty
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text: (414) 559-5756
Dan Pavletich
Program Director
(414) 277-2486
pavletich@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo