Machine Learning Undergraduate Certificate | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
AI for Emerging Applications Undergraduate Certificate
AI for Emerging Applications Undergraduate Certificate
Overview
The AI for Emerging Applications certificate is an interdisciplinary sequence of asynchronous course work, combined with a practicum experience that allows students from any major to develop a breadth of skills in the emerging realm of artificial intelligence (AI). Technical foundations will be gained in both AI and an application area, all while emphasizing the importance of human-centered design approaches to create ethically aligned, inclusive, and socially responsible AI. The practicum experience will provide a real-world industry derived project. Students interested in this certificate should consult with the AI for Emerging Applications certificate coordinator to discuss project options and develop an appropriate course plan to provide relevant skills for the project.
Admission Requirements
This certificate program offers an immersive hands-on experience in emerging AI applications for undergraduate students of all majors.
Read more about the AI for Emerging Applications Certificate in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the AI for Emerging Applications Certificate? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Tech in MKE Podcast
Milwaukee is gaining a national reputation as a tech hub and Milwaukee School of Engineering is at the heart of it all. President John Walz sat down with Steve Glynn at the “
Tech in MKE
” podcast to discuss how MSOE is contributing to Milwaukee’s brain gain, attracting and retaining tech talent to power our region.
Listen today to hear how MSOE is doubling down on tech—especially emerging technologies.
Tech in MKE: Milwaukee School of Engineering
Dr. Olga Imas
Professor
(414) 277-2382
imas@msoe.edu
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo