Karl O. Werwath Applied Research Award Nomination Form | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Engineering
Applied Technology Center™
Karl O. Werwath Applied Research Award
Karl O. Werwath Applied Research Award Nomination Form
Karl O. Werwath Applied Research Award Nomination Form
Background
Karl O. Werwath, an innovator in engineering education and the application of technology, believed that teaching effectiveness was enhanced through applied research and consulting. He felt that MSOE should make an effort to contribute to advance technical knowledge for the benefit of business and industry for the good of the community and the nation. This award was initiated to recognize the vision of Karl O. Werwath and the contribution of MSOE faculty and staff who have fostered the advancement of applied scientific knowledge.
MSOE faculty and staff are invited to nominate a candidate for the Applied Research Award using the ballot attached and including a CV. Nominees must be MSOE faculty or staff. Individuals may be nominated exclusively by faculty, staff, alumni, Regents and Corporation members. (Previous award winners are not eligible).
Award Nomination Criteria
Promoting research at MSOE (including major collaboration)
Contribution to applied, engineering and scientific research and scholarship
Publications resulting from research
Patentable concepts
Award Nomination Due Date
April 28, 2025
*
= required field
Nominee's Name
*
First
Last
Nominee's Department
*
Nominator's Name
*
First
Last
Nominator's Department
*
Please include a copy of the nominee's CV
*
Please list the qualifications of the nominee in the areas of contribution to applied and scientific research, scholarship, patents and publications.
*
Please summarize the reasons that you feel that this person is the most qualified for this award.
*
Spam Prevention
*
Please help us prevent spam by using the reCAPTCHA below.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo