Study Abroad | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Global Opportunities
At MSOE, we believe in the transformative power of the international learning experience. That’s why we make sure all students, regardless of major, have the opportunity to study abroad.
All of our students have the opportunity to explore the world, immerse themselves in new cultures and study academically in a global context. We offer short-term and year-long options and work closely with students to find the best fit for their academic goals.
MSOE offers opportunities to study in a variety of locations – including Europe, Asia and Central America – that will combine academic theory with real world practice in an intercultural context while continuing to prepare you in your course of study. Studying abroad enhances your degree and increases your marketability in the workforce.
Long Term Global Opportunities
Study Abroad
:
Take classes in for a semester or year at a partner institution where the credits you take will transfer back to MSOE. All courses are instructed in English.
Improve your knowledge of other cultures by living among and studying alongside students from another country.
Check the
Study Abroad Programs by Major
document to see which study abroad opportunities are available for your major and find out who to contact in your academic department to discuss which classes to take while abroad.
Study Abroad Timeline
: MSOE students usually study abroad during their sophomore or junior year, depending on their academic program and course plan. Below is a general preparation timeline:
One Year or More Before Studying Abroad:
Explore MSOE’s study abroad options at Welcome Week and the Global Opportunities Fair, meet with your department's Study Abroad Program Coordinator to plan your courses, and ensure your passport is valid for at least six months after your planned return.
Two Semesters Before Studying Abroad:
Attend a general study abroad info session, complete the
Study Abroad Interest Form
, and research potential courses through MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
and your host university’s website.*
One Semester Before Studying Abroad:
Attend mandatory pre-departure workshops, participate in the Study Abroad Canvas course to submit documents and receive updates, apply for a visa (if required), and confirm course selections with your coordinator.*
*Note: Course selection does not apply to students attending the exchange program at Lübeck University of Applied Sciences (THL), as the curriculum is pre-set.
A student enrolled in a study abroad program that is approved for credit by MSOE may be eligible to use their financial aid and scholarships towards studying abroad. All students pursuing a study abroad program should work with the Office of Multicultural Affairs and Financial Aid to make sure all the necessary forms are completed.
Short-Term Global Opportunities
Faculty or Staff-led trips
:  take a class at MSOE, earn credit and then travel with faculty members and classmates.
Student Organization travel:
travel with MSOE student organizations on service learning trips.
Short term opportunities occur during winter, spring, and summer breaks.
Don't want to miss a full term at MSOE? Take a look at our short-term program opportunities!
Students at MSOE have the opportunity to study at one of the oldest and best technical universities in the world, Czech Technical University (CTU) in Prague, Czech Republic.
Students from all majors can study abroad in Lille France over a one-month period in the summer.
Full year and semester-long study abroad opportunities for various majors exist with this long-standing partner institution in Northern Germany.
Study, live, and explore in the heart of Italy. Experience the charm of Florence while immersing yourself in its rich cultural heritage.
Discover adventure and innovation in Wellington, New Zealand—where breathtaking landscapes and exceptional learning opportunities await!
Experience a vibrant, multicultural campus at Monash Malaysia. Study, explore, and grow in the heart of Southeast Asia!
Immerse yourself in the rich culture of Madrid, Spain while studying at a globally renowned institution.
Apply for a $500 award to support your study abroad experience!
Study Abroad Interest Form
Interested in studying abroad? Let us know where you'd like to go!
Complete Interest Form
Sohoni Study Abroad Award
Learn more about a $500 award to support your study abroad experience.
Apply here!
View Academic Catalog
MSOE's course catalog provides our students with detailed information on courses, policies, procedures and more.
View Catalog
The Office of Multicultural Affairs
multiculturalaffairs@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo