Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics
Unleash the power of data-driven decision making with the transformative potential of artificial intelligence and analytics.
Overview
MSOE’s Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics Graduate Certificate is designed for business strategists who want to tap into the power of AI and analytics to take their careers and their organization to new heights. The certificate can be completed in 6 months and the asynchronous format provides the maximum flexibility and respect for the working professional's time. Today's and tomorrow's emerging leaders will learn through this program the latest tools and data visualization techniques to gain insights into the meaning and power of data. Participants will also learn how to leverage analytics as a strategic asset while developing a solid framework for analytics-enabled decision making.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online asynchronous
9 credits
Bachelor's degree
College-level statistics
International applicants will be required to submit additional documents (proof of English proficiency, financial guarantee and a copy of their passport)
Required Coursework
BUS 6121 - Data Wrangling and Exploration
3
credits
BUS 6131 - Predictive Analytics
3
credits
BUS 6141 - Analytics Leadership and Strategy
3
credits
Total: 9 credits
Admissions Process
Submit application here
.
Admissions office will verify through the National Clearinghouse database that you have a conferred bachelor’s degree.
Confirm with admissions office that you have completed a college level statistics course.
Upon formal acceptance into program, confirm plans to enroll.
Get access to myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions office will enroll you in appropriate courses.
OPTIONAL: submit FAFSA if you plan on utilizing federal aid.
Schedule sent by admissions counselor after registration opens.
You are an official an MSOE Raider!
Hear from industry professionals about the value of the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics at MSOE.
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Daniel Pavletich
Graduate Program Director
(414) 277-2486
pavletich@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo