CREATE Institute | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
CREATE Institute
We create a culture that inspires our students to develop both the mindset and skillset they need to solve the complex challenges of today and tomorrow by providing transformative student learning experiences that connect academic, community and industry needs.
Mission Statement
To leverage our meaningful relationships with industry partners to help foster the growth of the
MSOE Mindset
in our students throughout their academic career.
CREATE Institute Structure
A faculty-driven center to support academic excellence through professional development and collaboration across departments that support student success.
Dedicated to the strategic priority of ensuring all students use real-world projects and initiatives in their fields of study or extracurricular interests to benefit society and the communities where we live and work.
Dedicated to integrating servant-leadership into the fabric of the university through MSOE Mindset development.
Who We Serve
CREATE supports faculty in all programs and academic departments through curating resources and offering high quality programming designed to develop high-impact educational experiences and expand the reach of real-world projects for students.
CREATE is committed to building community through offering high quality programming that intentionally brings individuals from all corners of campus together.
CREATE offers a variety of resources and tools to help foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset in our students.
There are many ways to partner with CREATE and enjoy the benefits for your company.
CREATE Projects
View the real-world projects led by the CREATE team.
In the News
Academics
03.14.2023
MSOE Mindset to be the focus of multi-year curriculum integration initiative
Milwaukee School of Engineering is embarking on an initiative to further implement and institutionalize the MSOE Mindset.
The MSOE Mindset ensures MSOE…
Read More
MSOE
10.27.2022
MSOE to host Wisconsin Servant-Leadership City Tour
The Wisconsin Servant Leadership Fall 2022 City Tour is coming to Milwaukee. The topic of this fall’s event is “Civility.” All are invited to hear from…
Read More
Students
07.11.2022
Civil engineering student receives Future Water Leaders Fund Student Pilot Project award
Civil engineering master’s candidate Alexis Countryman received the Water Council’s Future Water Leaders Fund Student Pilot Project for her wastewater…
Read More
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo