Graduate Certificate in Tiny ML | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Tiny ML
Graduate Certificate in Tiny Machine Learning
Develop and deploy machine learning models for use on embedded systems that use data from on-board sensors and other sources.
Overview
Not all machine learning is deployed to large clusters; many of our everyday devices like smartwatches and smart thermostats run ML models on low-power embedded computers. The Graduate Certificate in Tiny Machine Learning prepares students to develop and deploy machine learning models for use on embedded systems that use data from on-board sensors and other sources.
Students consider tradeoffs in model accuracy, computational power, and energy usage along with security and reliability concerns.
All 8 credits can be applied towards the Master's in Machine Learning and can be completed in two semesters.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Required Admissions Documents
Online synchronous (two nights a week, 2-hour live lecture)
8 credits
Resume
Official undergraduate transcripts
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the Graduate Certificate in TinyML? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum
This certificate is composed of two required course:
CSC 5616 Machine Learning for Signal Processing Applications
CSC 6608 Machine Learning on Embedded Systems
Admissions Requirements
Technical bachelor's degree
Programming experience with an object-oriented programming language (C#, Python, or Java)
One year of college coursework or equivalent minimum.
A data structures course is preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
At least one year of differential and integral calculus.
A course equivalent to MSOE's CSC5610 AI Tools and Paradigms (can be taken at MSOE if needed).
Pathway to a Master's
This online certificate program is an excellent pathway to a bright future working with machine learning and AI technologies, but it is also a stepping stone for the Master of Science in Machine Learning. The certificate to master’s pathway allows you to pursue your education step-by-step with breaks in between.
100% of credits earned in this certificate can be applied toward the MS in Machine Learning degree.
Use what you learned from the certificate today, and return tomorrow to continue expanding your skill set.
Explore the master's program.
Alternative Certificate Options
New to machine learning and AI? The
Applied Machine Learning
certificate is a great place to start and gain foundational knowledge in this space before continuing into one of our other certificates.
You've learned how to create machine learning models, but they aren't very useful sitting on your desktop. Learn how to incorporate them into your software services and products for end users with our
Machine Learning Engineering
certificate.
Want to know how to build and deploy your own interactive AI assistants and systems like OpenAI's ChatGPT, Microsoft's Copilot, or Google's Gemini? The
Generative AI Production Systems
certificate will teach you how to design, implement, and operate your own AI-powered systems.
Why Obtain a Graduate Certificate in Tiny Machine Learning?
Students who complete this certificate will be well positioned for industry roles related to TinyML and Internet of Things.
Local companies are increasingly using machine learning to replace hand-written algorithms for embedded systems that control appliances, heavy equipment, and more.  They are eager to hire people who have experience with developing ML solutions that work on these resource-constrained platforms and with the type of data these platforms often encounter.
Further, manufacturing companies are increasingly using sensors anad other real-time information to monitor and guide maintenance and quality control.  By replacing fixed maintenance schedules with data-driven approaches for scheduling maintenance as needed, companies are increasing safety for their workers, reducing costs, and reducing production delays.  These group of approaches are often referred to as the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  The TinyML certificate teaches students about the sensor data, embedded systems,  and machine learning algorithms that form the technological core of IIoT.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in TinyML in our catalog in March 2026.
Dr.  RJ Nowling
Associate Professor/Certificate Coordinator
(414) 277-7318
nowling@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo