Marketing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Marketing
Marketing
The Bachelor of Science in Marketing utilizes real-world projects to apply the skills you learn in advertising, consumer behavior, social media marketing and market research to help manage relationships profitably.
Marketing is a fundamental aspect in all businesses. The Bachelor of Science in Marketing program helps students understand the importance of gathering information about customer needs and delivering value-added products through professional communication channels. The program provides a strong foundation in developing brands, managing customer expectations, collecting and analyzing marketing and consumer data and creating an integrated marketing communication plan. Our graduates work in ad agencies, in-house marketing departments, sales and much more. With a B.S. in Marketing from MSOE, graduates understand all aspects of business and begin contributing to industry immediately upon graduation.
Our program is designed to provide students with a strong marketing foundation while having the flexibility to explore additional topics of interest.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Marketing program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider a B.S. in Marketing if you…
Are an effective communicator with a passion for storytelling
Have the determination of a leader with the desire to work in a team environment
Enjoy analyzing and interpreting data to make an informed decision
Are detail oriented with a creative mind
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Marketing program.
Career Outcomes
80%
We're proud that 80% of 2024–25 graduates from our marketing program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Michael Payne
Associate Professor
(414) 277-7589
payne@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo