Nursing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Nursing
Nursing Labs & Facilities
The Ruehlow Nursing Complex, home to the School of Nursing’s classrooms, labs and faculty offices, is a technology-rich experiential learning and simulation center that trains the nurses of tomorrow.
1 / 2
Ruehlow Nursing Complex
2 / 2
Nursing SIM Lab Fly-by
The $3 million, 25,000-square-foot facility opened in 2013, enhancing the already innovative education experience that is the hallmark of an MSOE education. The complex includes:
Simulation Labs
These are four simulated hospital rooms connected by a central nurses station, similar to a hospital intensive care unit. The rooms feature call lights for the “patients,” who are high fidelity, lifelike manikins that can breathe, cough, talk or change conditions based on what nursing professors have programmed. Simulations allow students to communicate with patients, respond to patient needs, and witness the consequences of their decision-making and clinical reasoning in a hospital-like setting. Another unique feature is two classrooms are directly linked to simulation labs through a retractable wall. Students learn theoretical concepts in class and then can immediately apply what they have just learned to the care of a patient in the simulated hospital.
Students practice treating a variety of conditions with the help of four mock patients:
Sim Junior Manikin: A pediatric patient that might have acute or chronic health conditions
Premature Baby Manikin: A realistically proportioned 25-week preterm manikin developed in collaboration with the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP).
Laboring Mom Manikin: A woman with maternal health needs who may be in labor or delivering her baby
SimMan Classic Manikin: An adult that could have acute or chronic conditions
SimMan Essential: A patient with an acute illness that can be transported into the classroom for additional teaching and learning
This infusion pump is a smart pump with a drug library. If you are adding a drug to the infusion, like an antibiotic, the name will scroll across the window so everyone will know what is infusing. These machines also have software that can track time and drug infused in cases of medication errors or drug interactions.
This is the type of headwall common located above the bed in hospital rooms. Headwalls include wall suction and drainage container, air flow meter, oxygen flow meter and patient call light module.
Used in Neonatal Intensive Care Units [NICU] for premature infants to provide stable, safe environment for vulnerable patients.
The double sided glass allows the faculty to operate and speak for the mannikin. It also allows faculty to observe students caring for patients without being in the room.
We utilize Laerdal Medical's patient monitor which displays patient vital signs: ECG =heart rhythm and heart rate // SpO2=blood oxygen saturation level //  NBP=noninvasive blood pressure // RR= respiratory rate
Our nursing lab uses Laerdal Medical's premature infant – born earlier than the usual gestation period. This mannikin is 25 weeks old whereas normal gestation is 40 weeks.
This little boy is SimJunior, a Laerdal Medical mannikin accompanied by his pet, Chester Cheetah.
In two other laboratories, students experience situations related to invasive procedures and advanced patient care.
Health Assessment Labs
In two state-of-the-art laboratories, students learn health assessment skills and how to administer medications. These skills prepare sophomores for their first clinical experience with real patients.
Home Care Lab
The home care lab is set up like a handicap-accessible studio apartment, with a kitchen, table and chairs, living room furniture, large-screen TV, washer and dryer, and spacious bathroom with shower. Students take turns playing the role of the patient and teaching each other how to maneuver around the home with an illness. Students also learn how to use wheelchairs, walkers and other assistive devices to better understand what their patients experience.
Student Area
This space allows students to engage in collaborative learning as well as socialize and relax. It features comfortable furniture and a touch-screen TV that can be used as a computer display screen for group work. There’s also a refrigerator, microwave and storage cabinets for nursing student organizations.
The center is not limited to nursing students. Biomedical, mechanical and industrial engineering students access the home care lab to test medical equipment and evaluate its technological fit and function in a patient’s home. Graduate students in MSOE’s perfusion program also use the simulation suite as a simulated hospital operating room.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo