Academic Undergraduate Research | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
Labs and Research
Undergraduate Research
Academic Undergraduate Research
Academic Undergraduate Research
During the academic year, students earn credit by participating in research projects led by MSOE faculty members in a wide variety of disciplines.
The AUR Program allows MSOE undergraduates to meaningfully participate in research and other scholarly activities under the mentorship of an MSOE faculty member. Through this experience, MSOE undergraduates become a part of the larger research, scientific, and professional communities.
AUR promotes research experience as a vital component of the undergraduate education. Through the program, students will:
Develop a mentor/mentee relationship with the faculty advisor
Acquire knowledge and experience that transcends traditional coursework
Engage in creation and discovery by making an original contribution to an academic discipline
Enhance credentials in support of their professional career, including graduate school opportunities
Features of the AUR program include:
Projects offered in a wide variety of areas, including research topics in your major
Student/faculty team work side-by-side
Projects typically occur on-campus, during the academic year
Students may earn credit toward their major/minor degree
Researching findings are presented and/or published at a student-oriented or professional research conference
Students who participate will develop a variety of research-related skills such as:
Conducting literature searches
Effectively reading and evaluating journal articles
Formulating a research problem statement
Reporting results in a manner appropriate for scientific research
Presenting research findings in both written and oral formats
Independent thinking and learning
Student Qualifications
MSOE students who have attained junior standing and have earned a GPA of 3.2 or higher are eligible to participate. Projects are subject to approval by faculty advisor and department chair.
Questions? Contact the undergraduate research course coordinator Dr. Cory J. Prust at
prust@msoe.edu
or
(414) 277-7334
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo