Electrical Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering
The electrical engineering program (BSEE) at MSOE places a very strong emphasis on design, applications and experience-based learning through laboratory experimentation. The laboratory is a great place to work out the details of your understanding of the theory.
In the Electrical Engineering program at MSOE, you will acquire the abilities to design and develop a wide array of electrical systems and electronic devices from communication systems and renewable energy systems, to electronic equipment that could help save lives. The ever-growing demand for new and improved electronic technologies makes EE one of the fastest-growing engineering fields.
At MSOE, you’ll take EE courses beginning in your first year. Throughout the program you will work on interesting electronic projects and labs that will provide you with practical experience, teamwork and communication skills. EE students also have the opportunity to participate in internships as well as a five-year co-op program. Additionally, EE students have the option to study for a full year in Germany at the
Technical University of Applied Sciences Lübeck
, gaining international experience.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our electrical engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
After you graduate, the possibilities of where you could go with your degree are endless. The broad range of applications and projects that EEs work on provides you with significant flexibility when choosing a career path. Milwaukee is also home to many major electronic and electrical industries eager to hire electrical engineers from MSOE or to sponsor senior design projects. EE graduates are also well prepared for continuing their education through engineering, management, law, or other graduate studies.
You may want to consider EE if you …
Want to make a positive impact on society
Enjoy working with computers and/or other electronic hardware to solve problems
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Accreditation
The Electrical Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Electrical and Electronics Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Electrical Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024-25 graduates from our electrical engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished  electrical engineering faculty!
Associate Professor
Electrical Engineering
Dr. Cory Prust '01
Class of 2016
Electrical Engineering
Michele Pancani
Class of 2002
Electrical Engineering
Reg Zeller
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Steve Holland
Program Director
(414) 277-7376
holland@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo