Common Questions and Transfer Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
B.S. in Nursing - Traditional Track
Common Questions and Transfer Information
Common Questions and Transfer Information
A helpful list of questions about the traditional BSN program.
What makes MSOE School of Nursing distinctive?
Direct entry into the nursing program, no wait list
State-of-the-art experiential simulation complex
Guaranteed placement in the clinical sequence
A critical care course taken by all students in senior year
Opportunity for interprofessional education with medical students and pharmacy students from the Medical College of Wisconsin
Variety of clinical experiences that include maternal/newborn, medical/surgical, mental health, critical care (adult and neonatal), children’s hospital, community agencies, and school systems.
Senior capstone project that includes a one-on-one preceptorship with a professional nurse and a data-driven evidence-based leadership project.
Highly sought-after graduates by health care organizations. The variety of clinical opportunities, the number of clinical hours (≈ 700 hours) and lab hours (≈ 225 hours), plus participation in at least 15 simulations prepares students to transition to the role of the professional nurse.
When do the nursing and clinical courses start?
Starting nursing and clinical courses is always exciting for students! For students who start at MSOE as a freshman, the professional sequence of nursing courses begins in the sophomore year.
When will I graduate if I transfer in from another school?
This will vary by student and is dependent on completion of the pre-requisites courses needed to start the professional sequence of nursing courses which begin every fall and spring semester and progress sequentially for the next 6 semesters (3 years).
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo