Media Library | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Media Library
Center for Professional Education Media Library
Welcome to the MSOE Center for Professional Education's media library, your gateway to our collection of recorded webinars, photos from past programs and events, and articles about the Center for Professional Education.
Webinars
This webinar covers the core ingredients of a successful product organization and the processes that enable speed, alignment, and quality at scale. You’ll gain insight into the end-to-end workflows that support effective design, development, and productization—from engineering design and process development to product release, lifecycle management, and control plans.
If you liked this webinar, register today for our
Achieve Product Success with Phase-Gated Development
(March 5-26) and
Mastering Product Design Intent
(April 2-23) online live programs.
This webinar covers how lessons learned from earlier technology implementations, such as ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), can apply to successful A.I. adoption. Although A.I. holds the same transformative capability, many organizations are finding a slow return on investment for A.I. adoption. Watch this webinar recording to gain a better understanding of how A.I. will impact your people, processes, and overall business performance.
If you liked this webinar, register today for our
Exploring AI Solutions to Manufacturing Challenges
program on Wednesday, March 4, 2026, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT.
This webinar covers examines documented cases of A.I.-enabled attacks and system failures, explores how adversaries are using A.I. to automate hacking and social engineering, and discusses what defenders must do differently in an A.I.-accelerated threat landscape, and acts as a direct segue to our Defending Complex Systems in the A.I. Era program.
If you liked this webinar, register today for our
Defending Complex Systems in the A.I. Era program,
which runs on Wednesday, February 18 and Wednesday, February 25, 2026, from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. CT.
This webinar covers how Lean Six Sigma works, why it remains relevant in today’s fast-changing environment, and how you can begin applying its tools and techniques in your organization, and acts as a direct segue to our Lean Six Sigma Green Belt certificate program.
If you liked this webinar, register today for our
five-week Lean Six Sigma Green Belt certificate program
, which runs from Saturday, February 14 to Saturday, March 14, 2026, from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. CT.
This webinar covers the transformative intersection of artificial intelligence and business strategy, and acts as a direct segue to our professional certificate program, A.I. and Business Strategy: Developing Your Competitive Advantage.
If you liked this webinar, check out our slate of A.I. / Machine Learning professional development programs
here
.
This webinar will help you gain a deeper understanding of the foundations of artificial intelligence (A.I.) and machine learning (ML), and acts as a direct segue to our professional certificate program, A.I. Literacy.
If you liked this webinar, check out our slate of A.I. / Machine Learning professional development programs
here
.
This webinar goes deeper into artificial intelligence, exploring how it and machine learning are applied in real-world scenarios, and acts as a direct segue to our professional certificate program, A.I. and Machine Learning Applications: Connecting Concepts to Practice.
If you liked this webinar, check out our slate of A.I. / Machine Learning professional development programs
here
.
This webinar covers the critical practices that transform dependent teams into ownership-driven powerhouses, and acts as a direct segue to our in-person two part workshop series, Creating a Culture of Ownership.
If you liked this webinar, check out our slate of Leadership Skills Development programs
here
.
This webinar introduces you to the core project management principles and frameworks used by top-performing teams, and acts as a direct segue to our in-person workshop, Project Management Essentials: Turning Ideas into Action.
A note from the instructor regarding the "Project Management Essentials" webinar above:
"There was a question about whether someone should use Waterfall or Agile when conducting a project. In my response, I noted that there are three common approaches—Waterfall, Concurrent, and Agile—and that the choice depends on the project’s goals. However, I misspoke in describing Waterfall and Concurrent.
To clarify: Waterfall follows a strictly sequential process. Each phase must be fully completed before moving on to the next. This often makes projects longer but more structured. It is best for projects with very clear, stable requirements and little expected change. Concurrent allows phases to overlap, meaning work on a new phase can begin while the previous one is still in progress. This can shorten the overall project timeline by running activities in parallel. It is best for projects where speed is important and teams can collaborate across functions. Agile, of course, takes a more iterative and flexible approach, adjusting work in cycles based on feedback and changing requirements."
Center for Professional Education
(414) 277-7530
cpe@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo