Graduate Certificate in Generative A.I. | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Generative A.I.
Graduate Certificate in Generative AI Production Systems
Mastering LLMs: From Theory to Production
Overview
Generative AI, like large language models (LLMs) power software systems to automate business workflows, interact with customers, and perform other complex tasks.  Anyone building an "AI-powered" application today is going to look at using LLMs as an alternative to traditional machine learning (ML) models.  A single pretrained LLM can solve a wide range of tasks and do so more effectively than a zoo of custom-trained traditional ML models, making software smarter, more dynamic, and more powerful.
As with any new technology, however, come new challenges.  How do you ensure these models produce consistent and reliable responses?  How do you reduce computational demands and costs when serving such large models?
The Graduate Certificate in Generative AI Production Systems teaches you how to develop and operate safe, reliable, and cost-efficient software systems incorporating generative AI models like LLMs.  This certificate is targeted at software engineers with some prior machine learning experience like what is taught in our Graduate Certificate in Applied ML.
All 8 credits can be applied towards the Master's in Machine Learning. Can be completed in two semesters.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Required Admissions Documents
Online synchronous (two nights a week, 2-hour live lecture)
8 credits
Resume
Official undergraduate transcripts
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the Graduate Certificate in Generative AI? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum
This certificate is composed of two required courses, a modeling theory and practice course and a software systems implementation course.
CSC 6714 Large Language Models (LLMs)
CSC 6607 LLMs in Production
Admissions Requirements
Technical bachelor's degree
Programming experience with an object-oriented programming language (C#, Python, or Java)
A data structures course is preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
At least 1 year of differential and integral calculus.
Multivariable or linear algebra preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
A course equivalent to MSOE's CSC5610 AI Tools and Paradigms (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
Pathway to a Master's
This online certificate program is an excellent pathway to a bright future working with machine learning and AI technologies, but it is also a stepping stone for the Master of Science in Machine Learning.
100% of credits earned in this certificate can be applied toward the MS in Machine Learning degree.
The certificate to master’s pathway allows you to pursue your education step-by-step with breaks in between. Use what you learned from the certificate today, and return tomorrow to continue expanding your skill set.
Explore the master's program.
Alternative Certificate Options
New to machine learning and AI? The
Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning
is a great place to start and gain foundational knowledge in this space before continuing into one of our other certificates.
Tiny computers are in everything around us. Smartwatches, TVs, thermostats, and so much more! Want to learn how to make smart devices? Consider our
Graduate Certificate in Tiny Machine Learning
.
You've learned how to create machine learning models, but they aren't very useful sitting on your desktop. Learn how to incorporate them into your software services and products for end users with our
Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering
.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Generative AI in our catalog in March 2026.
Dr.  RJ Nowling
Associate Professor/Certificate Coordinator
(414) 277-7318
nowling@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo