Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Management
Management
The Bachelor of Science in Management is an all-encompassing program that provides students with a strong business background.
The Bachelor of Science in Management program is designed for generalists who want to have a broader background across all aspects of business. This program allows students to balance their electives across operations, technology, marketing, management and finance. It offers a comprehensive education in core business and emerging technologies. Hands-on experiences provide students with the skillsets they need to succeed after graduation.
The B.S. in Management prepares students to be able to strategically analyze, evaluate and solve business problems. Students will develop leadership skills that will prepare them to work with and lead diverse teams. Management career opportunities include client services manager, sales representative, project manager, human resource manager, business manager, logistics manager, account executive, data analyst, business consultant and more.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Management program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider a B.S. in Management if you…
Like to take a leadership role in projects
Are a strong communicator
Enjoy problem solving
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Management program.
Career Outcomes
88%
We're proud that 88% of our 2024–25 graduates from the management program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Katrina Moskalik
Assistant Professor
(414) 277-7360
moskalik@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo