Technical and Business Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Technical and Business Management
Technical and Business Management (AAS to B.S. Transfer Program)
The AAS to B.S. in Technical and Business Management program prepares students to transfer seamlessly to MSOE to complement their existing technical expertise with next-level business skills.
The Bachelor of Science in Technical and Business Management program gives AAS graduates an option to advance their career with a bachelor’s degree. Students with an approved associate degree from a technical college will enter MSOE as a junior and seamlessly transition to MSOE’s B.S. in Technical and Business Management program. Students will learn key aspects of technical sales including networking, psychology of sales, prospecting, forecasting and key communication strategies.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and our B.S. in Technical and Business Management program? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
You may want to consider B.S. in Technical and Business Management if you …
Like using your technical expertise to improve business processes
Enjoy working with people
Want a flexible schedule with high earnings potential
Have strong communications skills and a technical background
Read more about MSOE’s B.S. in Technical and Business Management AAS to B.S. transfer program.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024–25 graduates from our technical and business management program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
The Bachelor of Science business degrees began enrollment for the 2023-24 academic year. Individuals who were enrolled in the BBA program at MSOE prior to Fall 2023 will receive a Bachelor of Science upon graduation. Contact the program director for more information regarding semester curriculum.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Michael Payne
Associate Professor
(414) 277-7589
paynemj@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo