Perfusion | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Health
Perfusion
M.S. in Perfusion
MSOE’s accredited master’s degree in perfusion program emphasizes clinical exposure and courses focused on health sciences, statistics and literature interpretation.
MSOE is a leader in the field of perfusion education. We have been educating perfusionists since 1983 and started the first master’s degree program in 1993.
Students in the perfusion program will see a wide variety of cases, which may include implantation of Ventricular Assist Devices, transplant procedures and procedures using ECMO (extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation). Students generally serve as the primary perfusionist in over 125 cases—all in the Milwaukee area—including a strong pediatric experience. Simulation will also be used to prepare students. Research and statistical techniques are also covered in the program, which are critical topics for completing capstone projects and understanding scientific literature.
MSOE’s M.S. in Perfusion program prepares students in the following clinical areas:
cardiopulmonary bypass
patient monitoring
blood conservation (cell salvage, modified ultrafiltration and plasmapheresis)
intra-aortic balloon pumping (IABP)
ventricular assist devices (VAD)
total artificial heart placement (TAH)
selection of equipment and biomaterials
extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO)
Curriculum Format
MSOE’s Master of Science in Perfusion program starts in the fall of each academic year and is designed for full-time graduate students. It can be completed over five consecutive semesters, provided all program requirements are met. Academic courses meet on campus. Students are required to provide their own transportation to the various affiliated clinical sites—most are located within 25 miles of campus.
Admissions Process
Submit application online.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or mail.
Completed file reviewed by program directors for interview and ultimately admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Application Process
Applicants may apply at any time, but application review commonly occurs between Dec. 15 and early January. Incomplete applications after Dec. 15th are not guaranteed to be reviewed for admission. Because enrollment is limited to eight students per year, only the most highly qualified applicants will be invited to participate in interviews. If you are not accepted into the program but are interested to try the following year, you will need to reapply on our website. A criminal background check and urine drug screen will be conducted for all students entering the program.
See a complete list of requirements.
Prerequisite courses include at least one undergraduate college-level course in each of the following areas: physiology (or anatomy and physiology), chemistry, mathematics, and physics. Recommended coursework includes biochemistry and statistics. The GRE is a requirement for all applicants, with scores averaging greater than the 50th percentile considered competitive.
Competitive applicants should submit observations from at least two clinical cases under the direction of a Certified Clinical Perfusionist prior to formal acceptance into the program. Applicants can use
MSOE’s observation form
to submit proof of observation, or they can provide their own document.
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Perfusion degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Perfusion graduate degree.
We have more than 20 clinical instructors and faculty who teach in this program and have expertise in several areas of biomedical technology, including: physiology, biomaterials, biomedical equipment and pathophysiology.
Career Outcomes Rate for the Program
5-year placement rate = 100% with starting salaries generally in excess of $100,000
5-year first time pass rate on the board exams:
Clinical Applications in Perfusion Exam: 97%
Perfusion Basic Science Exam: 94%
5-year positive rate for surveys:
Employer: 100%
Graduate: 97%
Accreditation
This program is accredited by the
Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP).
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008. Below is an indication of whether the
M.S. in Perfusion
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
AL, AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, HI, IA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, MT, NC, ND, NE, NH, NJ, NM, NV, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WI, WV, WY
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
AS, GU, MP, PR, VI
Dr. Ron Gerrits
Academic Program Director
(414) 277-7561
gerrits@msoe.edu
Kirsten Kallies, CCP, LP
Clinical Program Director
(414) 277-7209
kallies@msoe.edu
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo