Hydraulic Systems Volume 1: Introduction to Hydraulics for Industry Professionals | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 1: Introduction to Hydraulics for Industry Professionals
Hydraulic Systems Volume 1: Introduction to Hydraulics for Industry Professionals
Hydraulic control serves almost all industries we can see around us, such as civil engineering, aerospace, military, agriculture, oil and gas, etc... This 27-hour (5-day) seminar overviews components and basics of building hydraulic systems.  The core part of the seminar covers the construction, operating principle, and sizing of basic hydraulic components such as pumps, motors, valves, cylinders, rotary actuators and accumulators.
The course also presents the terminologies and interpretation of symbols that help in reading hydraulic circuit diagrams.  The seminar presents detailed discussion about line losses, and sources of inefficiencies in pumps. The course concludes by exploring the basic techniques to build hydraulic circuits that work safely and efficiently. The course covers basic applications such as pressure limiting, pump unloading, driving single and multiple actuators against, resistive, overrunning, and combined loads. Other applications are covered such as sequence control and hydrostatic transmission.
Program Overview
Dates:
Sept 15-19, 2025
CEUs:
2.7 |
PDHs:
27
Cost:
$2,700 (
Includes all handout materials, graduation luncheon and break refreshments)
Who Should Attend
This seminar presents wide foundational understanding of hydraulic systems. Both inexperienced and experienced people should take the course where everyone will have some space to learn things based on their needs. Despite being named "introduction," the contents of the seminar are certainly beyond that. The target audience is engineers, technical sales personnel, technicians, and even management personnel.
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Identify the distinguishing features of hydraulic systems
Recognize hydraulic components symbols and read schematics based on ISO standards
Read hydraulic circuits diagrams
Perform the required calculation to size a basic hydraulic system
Explain the operation and applications of pumps, motors, valves, cylinders, rotary actuators and accumulators
Apply continuity and energy balance equations
Describe the basic configuration and operation of hydrostatic transmissions
Program Details
Course Outline:
CH01:
Hydraulic Systems Overview
CH02:
Basic Concepts Review
CH03:
Hydraulic Component Sizing Calculations
CH04:
Hydraulic Pumps and Motors
CH05:
Hydraulic Valves Overview
CH06:
Hydraulic Reciprocating Actuators
CH07:
Hydraulic Accumulators.
CH08:
Hydraulic Circuits for Basic Applications.
Seminar attendees receive a free copy of
“Introduction to Hydraulics for Industry Professionals”
Laboratory Sessions:
Lab01:
Energy Losses in Hydraulic Conductors
Lab02:
Power Distribution in a Hydraulic System
Lab03:
Valve Coefficient Development.
Lab04:
Motion Control of Hydraulic Cylinder.
Lab05:
Control of Overrunning Loads.
Lab06:
Speed Control of Hydraulic Actuator.
Lab07:
Boosting Speed of Hydraulic Cylinder.
Lab08:
Sequence Operation of Hydraulic Cylinder.
Agenda
Days 1-4:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Day 5:
9 am – noon.
Link to full agenda
Continental Breakfast and lunch will be served daily.
Beverages/Snacks are provided throughout the day.
Instructors
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Tim Kerrigan
– Adjunct Trainer, Fluid Power Institute
TM
Previous Session Evaluations
Introduction to Hydraulics (76042)
Introduction to Hydraulics (77081)
Introduction to Hydraulics (70243)
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo