Engineering Explorers Pathway | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Engineering Explorers Pathway
Engineering Explorers Pathway
Interested in engineering but not sure what path is right for you? MSOE’s Engineering Explorers Pathway exposes students to a variety of engineering disciplines to empower them to make an informed decision for their futures.
Engineering Explorers Pathway Format
The Engineering Explorers Pathway is a one-year program to support students who are still deciding on their program of study. In the first semester of classes, students receive a broad introduction to engineering. In their second semester of classes, students take authentic in-major courses in multiple majors of interest. An advisor helps students create a custom four-year graduation plan and supports students throughout their academic career. A variety of community-building activities are also offered to students in the Engineering Explorers Pathway.
Our direct-admit, applications-focused curriculum provides authentic, discipline-specific engineering experiences to first-year students. Engineering Explorer students use program choice courses to “sample” disciplines to find the right fit. Students are introduced to all engineering programs, user experience, computer science, construction management and business.
You may want to consider the Engineering Explorers Pathway if you…
Enjoy solving problems
Desire a career in engineering but aren’t sure which discipline is right for you
Often wonder how and why things work
Enjoy science and math
Enjoy taking things apart and putting them back together
Read more about MSOE's Engineering Explorers Pathway.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Beth Felch, M.S.
Explorer Pathways Program Coordinator
414-277-7367
felch@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo