Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Founded in 1989, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (UC3M) is one of Spain’s leading public universities, known for its emphasis on research, innovation, and high academic standards, offering courses in both English and Spanish. This opportunity allows MSOE students to immerse themselves in a new culture while gaining a world-class education at a globally recognized university. UC3M’s vibrant campus life and close proximity to Madrid offer an enriching experience both academically and culturally.
This program is currently open to the following majors:
Architectural and Civil Engineering and Construction Management
Business Majors - Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, Operations and Systems Management
Computer Engineering
Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
Software Engineering and Computer Science
Other majors* are currently being evaluated; interested students should consult the Study Abroad Program Coordinator in their department
*This opportunity is not available for Nursing or Electrical Engineering students
Key features:
A wide variety of courses instructed in English, as well as in Spanish.
Students work with their program director to choose individual courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
This program can be one or two semesters long, and students can study in the Fall or Spring semester, depending on their major and program path.
In most cases, participation does not delay graduation.
Students can take courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Minimum GPA Required: 3.0
Madrid, Spain
Located in the heart of Spain, Madrid is a dynamic and cosmopolitan city known for its rich cultural heritage, vibrant nightlife, and historical architecture. Famous landmarks like the Royal Palace, Plaza Mayor, and the Prado Museum showcase Madrid's artistic and historical significance. The city's blend of tradition and modernity, combined with its world-class universities and thriving student life, make it a leading destination for both education and exploration.
The Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (UC3M) has multiple campuses located in areas just outside the city of Madrid. Its main campuses are in
Getafe
,
Leganés
, and
Colmenarejo
, all within the Madrid metropolitan area.
Getafe Campus
(approximately 13 km south of central Madrid): This is the largest campus and hosts the university's social sciences, humanities, and law faculties.
Leganés Campus
(about 11 km southwest of Madrid): This campus focuses on engineering and technology programs.
Colmenarejo Campus
(around 35 km northwest of Madrid): This smaller campus offers a range of multidisciplinary programs.
All campuses are well-connected to Madrid by public transportation, making it easy for students to commute between the city and the university.
Housing & Meals at UC3M
MSOE students studying at UC3M live on campus in one of three
residence halls
.  While double and single rooms are available, shared double rooms are usually where students stay.  Some of the shared double rooms in
Fernando de Los Rios
(Getafe Campus) have optional meal plans (as these have kitchens available) and shared double rooms in
Fernando Abril Martorell
(Leganes Campus) have required meal plans.
The deadline to apply for housing is typically early in Fall semester, once students have been accepted to the university. The deadline to apply will be posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page. To apply, students will need to pay a
€
1400 deposit fee.
General Calendar at UC3M
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at UC3M based on the university's
academic calendar
. MSOE students can study in the 1º CUATRIMESTRE (1st semester) or 2º CUATRIMESTRE (2nd semester), but most study in the 2nd semester. Start and end dates for semesters are very similar to those at MSOE.  Students can also to request to take exams earlier if needed.
Courses at UC3M
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
to discuss academic planning and course selection at UC3M. Students and enroll in up to 30 ECTS credits (4-5 courses) per semester. Students will not enroll in courses until they arrive at UC3M, so we recommend students find as many courses possible for transfer credit and remain flexible with their course plans.
To view the courses available at UC3M, view their website for an extensive list of courses in their various
Bachelor's Degrees
. Once on that site, select your major, scroll down to "Program", and open up the drop down menu to see the courses associated with that major. The courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation.
Our office created this
UC3M spreadshee
t which also shows courses that have been evaluated and the semester they have been offered at UC3M in the past.
UC3M comes out with it's schedule of classes in December, which is why it's important to be flexible in your course selection!
Getting a Spanish Visa
Any student who does not hold a Spanish or EU passport will need to apply for a
Long-term Student Student Visa
to study at UC3M. Please note that applying for a Spanish visa is a time-sensitive and complicated process. Multicultural Affairs will host a visa workshop to guide you through the paperwork and help you submit your application. We begin visa advising in the summer for students planning to study abroad in the spring. Currently, students must secure and appointment and travel to the Chicago Consulate to apply.
Important deadlines are posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page to ensure that all documents are submitted in time for your visa to be processed before departure.
Using a Provider
If you would like hands-on guidance with the visa process and a more structured arrival experience, you may apply to this program through
CEA CAPA
, a trusted provider with whom MSOE partners. This option includes additional program features, such as excursions, flight credits, and airport pickup, but does come with an extra cost.
Questions? Contact
multiculturalaffairs@msoe.edu
.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program. The cost of this coverage will be billed to the student’s MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Additional Information and Program Cost Estimates
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo