User Experience | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
User Experience
User Experience
MSOE’s UX program will help you develop the skills to design the next digital innovation and solve user interface issues.
The User Experience degree program at MSOE is an interdisciplinary program that provides students with the essential skills to design digital experiences, environments, products, and services for customers and end users. Specifically, the program provides foundations of visual design and multimedia production, human factors, usability, content management, and information architecture. Students are prepared for careers in user experience, interaction design, usability, design research, content management, and technical communication.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our user experience degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Employment in digital fields is projected to grow much faster than the average for all occupations. Demand will be driven by the growing popularity of mobile devices and e-commerce. In our state-of-the-art Gene Carter Usability Lab, you’ll develop tools to meet these demands and share in the challenges of turning creative ideas into immersive and engaging interactive digital experiences.
You may want to consider UX if you have…
A strong interest in web, mobile, and emerging technologies.
A keen eye for aesthetics and a passion for great design.
A high degree of creativity and curiosity.
Problem-solving skills and an understanding of human behavior.
The ability to grasp complex ideas and translate them into clean, seamless and understandable solutions.
Excellent teamwork and communication skills.
Read more about MSOE's User Experience undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
57%
We're proud that 57% of 2024–25 graduates from our UX program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished User Experience faculty!
Associate Professor
User Experience
Dr. Nadya Shalamova
Associate Professor
User Experience
Dr. Tammy Rice-Bailey
Class of 2022
User Experience
David Xiong
UX Industrial Advisory Committee
Comprised of leading industry professionals, the UX IAC provides guidance to MSOE's UX program on industry trends and needs.
Learn more
Dr. Nadya Shalamova
Associate Professor
(414) 277-2331
shalamova@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo