Biomedical Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Biomedical engineering (BME) is the application of a variety of engineering principles and design processes to medicine and biology for the improvement of health care.
Biomedical engineers use engineering principles and methods to create products and services to improve peoples’ lives, such as cardiac pacemakers, CT scanners and artificial hips. They use their skills in math, physics, biology and anatomy to improve equipment and processes and advance health care technology.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our biomedical engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
The BME program at MSOE balances fundamental electrical, mechanical and chemical engineering content with a solid grounding in basic and life sciences. MSOE’s BME program is designed to prepare students for immediate employment in the medical device and health care industries, for graduate study in engineering and other related fields, and for professional studies such as medical and law school.
You may want to consider BME if you …
Want to help people by advancing health care technology and systems.
Are excited by the idea of creating and working with the latest medical devices and systems.
Enjoy biology and chemistry as well as math and physics
Prefer activities involving equipment and processes rather than direct patient care
Want to help people live happier and healthier lives, but prefer not to pursue a nursing, medical, or other clinical career.
Accreditation
The Biomedical Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Bioengineering and Biomedical Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Biomedical Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of 2024-25 graduates from our biomedical engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished biomedical engineering faculty!
Class of 2011
Biomedical Engineering
Ben Hansen
Class of 2018
Biomedical Engineering
Kevin Banks Jr.
Coulter College Design Scholars
Biomedical Engineering
Students participate in training program
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Jeffrey LaMack
Program Director
(414) 277-7535
lamack@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo