Transcript Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Registrar
Transcript Information
Transcript Information
MSOE uses Parchment as our transcript provider.   This allows us to securely send electronic transcripts.
All official transcripts must be ordered through the Parchment interface.
Parchment Transcript Ordering
(see fees below)
Release to Email or Fax Unofficial Transcript
Parchment processing fees:
Electronic transcript  $4.25
Printed and mailed transcript (USPS Domestic)    $7.00
Printed and mailed transcript (USPS International)  $10.00
Printed transcript picked up in our office  $4.25
Expedited Delivery of Printed Transcript – FedEx fee based on receiver address
Unofficial transcripts can usually be obtained immediately by presenting photo identification in the Registrar’s Office (CC377).
An official transcript will not be released if the student has an outstanding balance on their student account. Exceptions to the policy are indicated below:
MSOE will provide an official transcript that includes all the credit hours for payment periods in which the student received Title IV/HEA funds.
MSOE will provide an official transcript when a student balance is a result from an error in the institution’s administration of the Title IV/HEA programs.
MSOE will provide an official transcript directly to an employer for future employment purposes when a student balance prevents transcript release to the student.
MSOE will provide an official transcript directly to state licensure institutions when a student balance prevents transcript release to the student.
Official transcripts typically take approximately one full business day to process, however, delays will occur at the end of each academic term. If you attended prior to 1985 and have not recently requested a transcript, there will be a delay as we are manually converting our paper transcripts to computerized records as the transcripts are requested.
Milwaukee School of Engineering is in possession of the student academic records from the diploma program at the former
Milwaukee County General Hospital School of Nursing (MCGHSN).
Please use the MSOE Parchment link above to obtain your transcript.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo