Online Machine Learning Program Admissions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Online Graduate Programs
Online Machine Learning Programs
Online Machine Learning Program Admissions
Online Machine Learning Program Admissions
Begin Your Application
Transform your career with the
Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning
or the
Master of Science in Machine Learning
. Review the requirements below to prepare your application.
Prerequisite Requirements
To be considered for either program, applicants must meet the following minimum requirements:
Technical bachelor’s degree
Programming experience: A minimum of one year of college coursework (or equivalent experience) in a modern language such as Python, C# or Java.
Applicants with less experience will be encouraged to take CSC 5120—Software Development for Machine Learning
Calculus Background: A minimum one year of differential and integral calculus required—multivariable calculus or linear algebra preferred.
For those without a technical degree or sufficient programming experience, please explore our
online MBA degree option.
Application Process at MSOE
The application process is designed to be as easy as possible. Please follow these steps for timely review.
Complete the
online application form.
Submit official transcripts from all colleges and/or universities previously attended.
Submit resume/cover letter.
Completed application sent to the Program Director for review.
An admission decision is typically made within 3-5 business days.
International students can view additional admissions information by clicking
here
.
Get a Sneak Peek of a Machine Learning Class!
Want an inside look at one of the online machine learning classes offered at MSOE? Just complete a short form, and you'll receive a video overview led by program director and assistant professor, Dr. RJ Nowling.
Get a sneak peek
Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more about the Online Master's in Machine Learning? Just fill out the short inquiry form and our Admissions team will be in touch and share a program brochure.
Fill out inquiry form
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo