Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning
Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning
Develop machine learning and artificial intelligence expertise to take your career to the next level.
Overview
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning is designed for recent graduates and professionals interested in developing new skills and boosting their careers. The certificate program prepares students to leverage artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning domains to create innovative, data-driven solutions to problems. Application-oriented courses fuse concepts from statistics and computer science to prepare students to design algorithms that process data, make predictions and help make decisions.  The duration of the certificate program is one year with students taking one course per term.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Required Admissions Documents
Online synchronous (two nights a week, 2-hour live lecture)
8 credits
Resume
Official undergraduate transcripts
Admissions Requirements
Technical bachelor’s degree
Programming experience with an object-oriented programming language (C#, Python, or Java)
One year of college coursework or equivalent minimum
A data structures course is preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
At least one year of differential and integral calculus
Multivariable or linear algebra preferred (can be taken at MSOE if needed)
Why Obtain a Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning?
MSOE’s corporate partners and industry leaders are seeking employees with knowledge in AI to strengthen their workforce. With the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning, you will be able to contribute to an organization by implementing
key machine learning and AI applications.
Pathway to a Master's
This online certificate program is an excellent pathway to a bright future working with machine learning and AI technologies, but it is also a stepping stone for the Master of Science in Machine Learning. The certificate to master’s pathway allows you to pursue your education step-by-step with breaks in between.
100% of credits earned in this certificate can be applied toward the MS in Machine Learning degree.
Use what you learned from the certificate today, and return tomorrow to continue expanding your skill set.
Explore the master's program.
Alternative Certificate Options
Tiny computers are in everything around us. Smartwatches, TVs, thermostats, and so much more! Want to learn how to make smart devices? Consider our
Graduate Certificate in Tiny Machine Learning
.
Want to know how to build and deploy your own interactive AI assistants and systems like OpenAI's ChatGPT, Microsoft's Copilot, or Google's Gemini? The
Graduate Certificate in Generative AI Production Systems
will teach you how to design, implement, and operate your own AI-powered systems.
You've learned how to create machine learning models, but they aren't very useful sitting on your desktop. Learn how to incorporate them into your software services and products for end users with our
Graduate Certificate in Machine Learning Engineering
.
If you’re looking for a program that leverages cutting-edge AI and analytics without the heavy math prerequisites, consider the
Graduate Certificate in Advanced Business Strategy Using AI and Analytics
offered by the Rader School of Business. This program is designed to equip you with the strategic insights and analytical skills needed to excel in today’s data-driven business environment.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or application portal.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about MSOE and the Graduate Certificate in Applied Machine Learning? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Dr.  RJ Nowling
Associate Professor/Certificate Coordinator
(414) 277-7318
nowling@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo