Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Certificates
Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing
Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing
Certificate Information
MSOE’s Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing (AM) is designed for recent graduates and professionals interested in developing a specialization in the design and analysis of components and systems manufactured using modern additive manufacturing techniques. After completion of the program, students will be able to understand the technical principles, economic benefits and challenges, and workflows for AM of polymers, composites, and metals.
The expected completion time of the certificate is two semesters, six credits per semester.
Upon completion of the certificate program, students will be able to:
Analyze the benefits and drawbacks of every major additive manufacturing technology.
Design and develop additively manufactured parts and systems.
Contrast the economic benefits and drawbacks of systems manufactured using additive techniques against those made using traditional methods.
Required courses:
IND 5701 - Economics of Additive Manufacturing
MEC 5274 - Fundamentals of Additive Manufacturing
Electives:
pick two
MEC 5276 - Composite Manufacturing
MEC 5675 - Mechanics of Additively Manufactured and Anisotropic Materials
MEC 5676 - Design for Additive Manufacturing
Total: 12 credits
Admissions Requirements
Bachelor’s degree with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher in industrial engineering, manufacturing engineering, or mechanical engineering. Professionals with a bachelor’s degree in other related disciplines and relevant industry experience in additive manufacturing may be considered for admission.
Documents Needed
Official undergraduate transcripts.
If cumulative GPA is below 3.0 requirement, please submit resume, statement of purpose and interview with program director.
Read more about the Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing in our catalog.
Ready to learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Additive Manufacturing? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo