Monash University Malaysia | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Monash University Malaysia
Monash University Malaysia
Study at one of the world’s top universities and explore the rich culture and history of Malaysia.
Monash University Malaysia, located in Bandar Sunway just outside of the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, consistently ranks among the top 100 of the world’s universities according to QS World University Rankings. Studying at Monash Malaysia means experiencing a distinctly international and culturally rich environment. Enroll in interesting classes, join clubs, eat delicious food, and explore all that the region has to offer!
This program is currently open to the following majors:
Architectural and Civil Engineering
Biomedical, Computer, and Software Engineering
Computer Science
Construction Management
Other majors* are currently being evaluated; interested students should consult the
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
in their department
*This opportunity is not available for CBE, EE, or Nursing students
Key Features:
All courses are taught in English.
Students work with their program director to choose individual courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
This program is one semester long, from February to June, making it ideal for those who don’t want to be abroad for the whole year.
In most cases, participation does not delay graduation.
Students can take courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Minimum GPA Required: 3.0
Monash University Malaysia
Established in 1998,
Monash University Malaysia
was the first foreign university campus in Malaysia. Monash Malaysia is a campus of Monash University in Australia, a large, multi-campus, academically rigorous institution. The university is highly ranked and has an international reputation for excellence. Immerse yourself in the energetic and friendly student environment and experience the uniqueness and diversity of living in Malaysia.
Greater Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Monash Malaysia is a short, 15-minute drive from the vibrant capital city, Kuala Lumpur. Kuala Lumpur, and
Malaysia
as a whole, is a glorious melting pot of traditions from Malay, Chinese, Indian, and indigenous cultures. Across the country you will find a variety of languages, foods, and gorgeous landscapes to explore.
Housing & Meals at Monash
MSOE students studying at Monash Malaysia typically live in one of the nearby apartment buildings run by
Sunway House Residence
. The Waterfront Residence is across the street from campus, so usually students try and live in that building. There are a variety of room options available, but most often a student will have a private bedroom and a shared bathroom and living area. Since the student apartment complexes are not operated by the university, there will be separate deadlines to apply. The deadline to apply will be posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page.
There are no formal meal plans, but you’ll have a variety of dining options, including affordable campus canteens, nearby restaurants, and local markets where you can shop and prepare your own meals. Malaysia is known for delicious and inexpensive food!
General Calendar at Monash
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at Monash based on the university's
academic calendar
. MSOE students study during Semester 1 at Monash (Spring semester). In general, you can plan for:
Mid-February: Arrival and Orientation
Early-March - End of May: Classes
Early-June - End of June: Exam Period
Courses at Monash
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
to discuss academic planning and course selection at Monash. Students will enroll in 18-24 credit points (3-4 courses) per semester.
You can review Monash Malaysia’s course offerings using their
Handbook
. The easy way to use this tool is to select your “Faculty”, scroll to your “Area of Study” (Major), and then view all of the courses associated with your major under “Requirements”.
You also can use the
Advanced Search
feature by selecting “
Units
” and inputting your requirements. For example: Location is “
Malaysia
”, Teaching Period is “
First semester
”, Implementation Year is “
2025
”, and Level is “
Undergraduate
”. Once you click on a unit (or course), check the right side of the screen to see if it says “
Yes
” under “Open to exchange or study abroad students?”.
Courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation. Multicultural Affairs can also provide additional instructions on searching for courses.
Getting a Malaysian Visa
Any student who does not hold a Malaysian passport will need to apply for a
Student Pass (Visa
) to study at Monash Malaysia. Multicultural Affairs will host a visa workshop to guide you through the paperwork and help you submit your application. Currently, students can submit their visa application online.
Important deadlines are posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page to ensure that all documents are submitted in time for your visa to be processed before departure. Please note that upon arrival in Malaysia, you will be required to get a Mandatory Medical Screening. The Monash Malaysia staff will help you with this process.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs and additional insurance to meet the insurance requirements established by Monash.
Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program. The cost of this coverage will be billed to the students’ MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Upon enrollment at Monash Malaysia, all students will automatically be signed up for Monash’s Generali insurance. This insurance meets the requirements listed for the Malaysian student visa.
Additional Information and Program Cost Estimates
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo