Actuarial Science | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Mathematics
Actuarial Science
Actuarial Science
MSOE’s actuarial science degree teaches you how to manage and even avoid complex risks facing organizations today. You’ll use a combination of advanced mathematics with advanced computer programs, statistics, finance, probability and more.
Actuarial science includes a number of interrelated subjects, including probability, mathematics, statistics, finance, economics, financial economics, and computer programming. In the last 30 years the field has undergone dramatic changes thanks to the growth of high-speed computers and software programs. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of actuaries is projected to grow 22 percent from 2023 to 2033.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our actuarial science degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Actuaries have a combination of strong analytic skills, business knowledge, and understanding of human behavior to manage the complex risks facing our society. They work in a wide variety of fields, from public and private sectors to higher education, labor unions, public accounting firms and consultants.
You may want to consider actuarial science if you …
Are able to do mathematics and detailed work with accuracy
Have keen analytical, project management and problem solving skills
Have an interest in business, including finance, accounting and economics
Have strong oral and written communication skills
Are proficient with computers and computer programs
Accreditation
This program is approved by the Society of Actuaries (SOA) and is included on the SOA listing of Universities and Colleges with Actuarial Programs (UCAP). Read more
here
.
Read more about MSOE's Actuarial Science undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
92%
We're proud that 92% of 2024-25 graduates from our actuarial science program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our Mathematics faculty
Class of 2017
Actuarial Science
Ally Brehm
Class of 2015
Actuarial Science
MaKisha Williams
Class of 2024
Actuarial Science
Morgan Imhoff
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Won Chul Song
Assistant Professor
(414) 277-7343
song@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo