Florence University of the Arts | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Study Abroad
Florence University of the Arts
Florence University of the Arts
Study, explore, and live in the heart of Italy. Experience the charm of Florence while immersing yourself in its rich cultural heritage.
Florence University of the Arts (FUA), located in Florence, Italy, is perfect for students who want to study in a vibrant urban setting surrounded by rich history and world-class art. When you’re not in class, you can wander the streets of the historic city center, indulge in delicious food, and immerse yourself in Italian culture and traditions.
This program is currently open the following majors:
Business Majors: Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, Operations and Systems Management
User Experience
Key Features:
All courses are taught in English.
Students work with their program director to choose individual courses, to be sure the credits will transfer to their major at MSOE.
FUA has a customizable program length. Typically, students will study abroad for one MSOE semester and choose an 11-week, 12-week or 15-week semester.
In most cases, participation does not delay graduation.
Students can take courses that interest them but may not be available at MSOE.
Minimum GPA Required: 2.75
Florence University of the Arts
Florence University of the Arts
has seven locations in Florence and its schools offer a rich variety of academic disciplines. In addition to academics, students have access to several experiential components such as educational fieldtrips, involvement in the local culture through community service and volunteer opportunities, as well as extracurricular activities organized by FUA’s Student Life and Development Office.
Florence, Italy
Famous for its history, Florence is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance and is home to such masterpieces as Michelangelo’s
David
and Botticelli’s
Birth of Venus
. It’s location in the heart of Italy means you can easily travel to other Italian regions and visit nearby European countries. In and outside of classes you will be immersed in a unique blend of history and modernity that only Florence can offer.
Housing & Meals at FUA
MSOE students studying at FUA typically live in
shared apartment housing
. The apartments are fully furnished, and the standard layout consists of multiple bedrooms, multiple bathrooms, a kitchen and living/dining room space. The bedrooms range from single bedrooms for one occupant to multiple occupancy. All apartments are within a 40-minute walk from school facilities.
Students apply for housing when they complete the rest of their FUA application. The deadline to complete your application will be posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page. There is a $300 refundable housing deposit that students will need to pay separately.
Living in an apartment stay means that you have a partial meal plan for 5 units a week. There are also a variety of affordable options all over the city, and the possibility of stopping by a local market to shop and prepare your own meals.
General Calendar at FUA
During our predeparture sessions, you will be given specific dates for studying at FUA based on the university's
academic calendar
. FUA is unique in the ability for students to customize their semester to be 11, 12 or 15 weeks. There are intensive courses offered for 1 to 3 weeks, and regular semester-long courses as well.
MSOE students typically study abroad during the Spring semester at FUA. In general, if you choose a 15-week semester, you can plan for:
Mid-January: Arrival and Orientation
End of Jan to Mid-February: Session 1= 3-week intensive course (1 or 2 classes)
Mid-February to Early-May: 11-week semester = non-intensive classes (minimum 12 credits)
Early-May to Mid-May: Exam Period
Courses at FUA
Students are encouraged to meet with their department's
Study Abroad Program Coordinator
to discuss academic planning and course selection at FUA. Students will enroll in 12-18 credits for your semester abroad and are encouraged to enroll in at least one course with an Italian Language Component.
When viewing the
courses at FUA
, be sure the course is offered during the appropriate semester you are looking at (for example, there is a difference between Session 1 courses and 11-week courses), and double check that you will meet the perquisite requirements. If you have any questions about understanding how the calendar or course selection works, feel free to reach out to your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs.
Courses already evaluated for transfer credit can be found in MSOE’s
Transfer Evaluation System
(view "non-catalog" courses). If you’re interested in a course that hasn’t yet been reviewed, please contact your designated staff member in Multicultural Affairs to request an evaluation.
Getting an Italian Visa
Any student who does not hold a passport to a EU or EEA member country will need to apply for a
Student Visa
to study at FUA. Multicultural Affairs will host a visa workshop to guide you through the paperwork and help you submit your application. Currently, students can submit their visa applications via mail or in person at the Italian Consulate in Chicago.
Important deadlines are posted on the Study Abroad course Canvas page to ensure that all documents are submitted in time for your visa to be processed before departure. Please note that it is your responsibility to apply for and receive your visa. Our office can provide general guidance, but we cannot provide intensive support.
Insurance
Students are required to purchase travel insurance to participate in MSOE’s study abroad programs. Multicultural Affairs will enroll students in
CISI insurance
world-wide coverage for the duration of the program. The cost of this coverage will be billed to the students’ MSOE account and included with their tuition the semester they leave to study abroad.
Please note that there might be additional insurance that FUA requires to meet their requirements.
Additional Information and Program Cost Estimates
Students will be enrolled full-time in a study abroad course at MSOE and will maintain their status as MSOE students throughout their time abroad. They will continue to pay MSOE tuition and fees. For detailed cost information, please see the
Program Cost Estimates.
Contact MSOE’s Financial Aid Office,
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7224, for questions regarding financial aid and scholarships.
For more information about this program,
contact the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo