Hydraulic Systems Volume 6: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 6: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis
Hydraulic Systems Volume 6: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis
This 2-day (12-hour) seminar is targeting industry professionals who are in charge of operating, maintaining, and troubleshooting hydraulic systems. This seminar is also a great learning source for mechanical engineers and service manuals technical writers.
The seminar presents more than 40 troubleshooting charts to cover system-level and components-level troubleshooting including hydraulic fluids, pumps, motors, valves, cylinders, accumulators, reservoirs, transmission lines, heat exchanges, filters, and sealing elements. The seminar also presents proposed inspection sheets for the aforementioned components and investigations for the typical types of failures for each component.
Program Overview
Date:
January 15-16, 2026
CEUs:
1.2 |
PDHs:
12
Cost:
$900 per person.
Who Should Attend
Mechanical and industrial engineers. Hydraulic system operators, servicers, troubleshooters. Technical manual editors.
Course Material
Hydraulic Systems Volume 6: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis
Workbook 6: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Identify the best method to troubleshoot hydraulic components and systems.
Apply troubleshooting charts for common hydraulic components.
Apply logic fault detection to hydraulic systems.
Recognize failure of common hydraulic components due to cavitation, particulate contaminations, overheating, overpressure, etc.
Course Outline
Chapter 01: Hydraulic Systems Troubleshooting Logic Methodology
Chapter 02: Basic Troubleshooting Equipment
Chapter 03: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Sealing Elements
Chapter 04: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Pumps
Chapter 05: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Motors
Chapter 06: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Cylinders
Chapter 07: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Valves
Chapter 08: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Accumulators
Chapter 09: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Reservoirs
Chapter 10: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Transmission Lines
Chapter 11: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Heat Exchangers
Chapter 12: Troubleshooting and Failure Analysis of Filters
Chapter 13: Hydraulic Systems Troubleshooting
Chapter 14: Examples of Hydraulic Systems Troubleshooting
Agenda
Days 1-2:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks are provided throughout the day.
Instructors
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Kerrigan Tim
– Director of Fluid Power Institute, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Register Now
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register Now!
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell: (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo