CAECM Early Entry Application | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
CAECM Early Entry Application
CAECM Early Entry Application
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the CAECM Early Entry Master’s program should apply here. Please note that only current MSOE undergraduate students should apply here.
If you are NOT a current MSOE student but would like to apply for the Master of Science in Civil Engineering or the Master of Science in Architectural Engineering program you should
complete the application here
.
Please note, if your current MSOE cumulative GPA is below 3.0, you must include a personal statement that includes discussion of how you plan to meet the additional challenges of graduate coursework so that you can earn at least a minimum of a 3.0 GPA each term moving forward.
Students with a MSOE undergraduate cumulative GPA below 2.7 will not be considered at this time.
If you have any questions, please reach out to
Lucia Kohne
, Director of Graduate Admissions.
*
= required field
Name
*
First
Last
Preferred Name
*
Student ID Number
*
MSOE Email Address
*
I am applying for the following MS in Architectural Engineering degree...
*
MS in AE: focus Building Mechanical, Electrical, and Power Systems
MS in AE: focus Building Structural Systems
Not applicable
I am applying for the following MS in Civil Engineering degree...
MS in CVE: focus Environmental/Water Resources Engineering
MS in CVE: focus Construction Management
MS in CVE: focus Transportation Engineering
MS CVE: focus Structural Engineering
Not applicable
I am applying for the MS Structural Engineering degree
*
Yes
No
Capstone Options: This is for planning purposes only. The final capstone decision is made prior to the start of the 5th year.
*
I expect to complete the two-semester capstone project sequence (7 credits: CAE 7810 Research and Writing, ARE/CVE 7901 Capstone I, ARE/CVE 7902 Capstone II)
I expect to complete the one-semester capstone report sequence (4 credits: CAE 7810 Research and Writing, ARE/CVE 7901 Capstone I)
Spam Prevention
*
Please help us prevent spam by using the reCAPTCHA below.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo