Subject to Academic Suspension–Additional Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Registrar
Policy for Probation and Suspension
Subject to Academic Suspension–Additional Information
Subject to Academic Suspension–Additional Information
Important information you should know about academic suspensions at MSOE.
What does it mean to be subject to suspension?
At the end of spring semester, all students with a cumulative GPA below 2.00 or major GPA below 2.00 with at least 9 major GPA credits attempted in residence who have been on academic probation or suspension in any previous fall or spring semester in the last two years will be subject to suspension and will be reviewed.  The review process is outlined below.
Please note: Academic suspension and
financial aid suspension
are two separate policies with different criteria and timelines.
What does the subject to suspension status mean for me?
If you are subject to suspension after the spring term, you will receive an email from the Registrar notifying you of your status.  The first step in the suspension process is a preliminary review of your record.  You are encouraged to submit a reflection document to the Registrar as part of this review.  This reflection document is not an appeal.  The purpose of the reflection document is to give you an opportunity to objectively evaluate your academic performance.  The reflection document should address these questions:
What do you believe are the factors that negatively affect your success at MSOE?
What is your plan to address these factors?
What student success and wellness resources are you currently utilizing?
What are three specific action items that, if you are allowed to enroll, you commit to addressing in the spring semester?
While this reflection document is not required, this document will serve as your voice during the review of your record.  Your academic department will review your academic record, any input from your advisor and student services, and any reflection documents that you have submitted and then determine a status of suspension or probation.  Reflection letters submitted by the deadline will be included in the information reviewed by your academic department.  You can expect the decision of this initial review by June 15th.
What happens if I am suspended?
If the review results in suspension, the student may submit a written appeal of the decision to the Student Advancement Committee. The letter should include information on the student’s extenuating circumstances beyond what was submitted in the previous reflection letter(s). Members of the committee will review the written appeal and may require a meeting with the student before making a final decision.
The Student Advancement Committee will decide whether the student is allowed to continue on probation and may require a progress review at the end of the subsequent fall and/or spring semester. In those cases, depending upon the outcome of the progress review(s), the student may be suspended at the end of the fall or spring semester. The progress review(s) will be conducted by one or more members of the SAC.
If the student chooses not to appeal or the appeal is denied, the student must take at least one academic year off and may not appeal to return until fall of the next academic year. Special consideration for early reinstatement may be made at the discretion of the committee. The student must write a letter to request readmission and submit it a minimum of 30 days before the first day of the term in which they hope to return. This letter will be reviewed by members of the SAC. The letter should include three specific things:
Describe any academic credits earned while you were away (please include an unofficial transcript or grade report)
Describe any work experience you had while you were away
Describe what will be different when you return
This reinstatement letter is due 30 days before the start of the term in which you hope to return.  This deadline will be strictly enforced.
Decisions of the committee are final.
Registrar's Office
Campus Center
(414) 277-7215
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo