An MSOE Degree Pays Off | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
An MSOE Degree Pays Off
An MSOE Degree Pays Off
Invest in yourself: at MSOE you’re getting more than a top-ranked education. You’ll learn directly from professors who have industry experience, spend more time in laboratories than classrooms, and gain an education that will pay dividends well beyond your four years on campus.
Here are just a few reasons students like you choose MSOE:
You might spend less per year at a public university, but it will likely take you longer to graduate. The cost evens out in the end. At MSOE, you’ll be admitted directly to your program and take classes in your major freshman year.
MSOE has 4-year graduation guarantee!
Every university’s Career Services Office can provide data on their graduates and what they’re doing after graduation. Not many other schools can claim a 96% career outcomes rate like MSOE (this means 96% of our graduates are employed or going to grad school within six months of graduating).
Check out third-party sources like PayScale Inc., which publishes a
College Salary Report
and
College ROI Report
, to see how a degree from MSOE pays off compared to other universities.
Finally, learn more about
how we teach
and
why you should choose MSOE
.
1 / 3
One of the most important investments you'll make is your education. An education from MSOE means direct entry into programs (you'll take classes towards your major on day one!), a four year graduation guarantee, and so much more. Now more than ever, MSOE is a S.M.A.R.T. decision.
2 / 3
Matt Mundt graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering from MSOE in 2014. His extensive internship experience as a student gave him a leg up on the competition as he began his career. Matt's employment since graduation includes working at Apple and Harley-Davidson.
3 / 3
Joe Schwall graduated from MSOE in May 2017. Meet Joe and learn more about his journey, how scholarships made it possible for him to attend MSOE, and his career goals.
Take the next step and get started on your future today!
See what others are saying about us:
MSOE has the
highest return on investment (ROI)
and the
highest average starting and mid-career salaries
of any school in Wisconsin according to PayScale Inc.
In a recent report from the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce entitled
“A First Try at ROI: Ranking 4,500 Colleges,”
MSOE was at the top of the list, offering the highest ROI of all colleges and universities in Wisconsin, Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota that offer bachelor’s degrees.
MSOE was listed among the
Best Colleges in America
, ranked by value.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo