Business | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Business
Rader School of Business
MSOE’s Rader School of Business has been offering business and management degrees for more than 60 years.
As a graduate of the Rader School of Business, you will be equipped to face the challenges of the dynamic global marketplace with confidence. MSOE’s industry-driven and technology-focused Bachelor of Science degree prepares students for success in business and beyond.
MSOE's Rader School of Business has offered degrees for more than 60 years, with no plans of slowing down.
Graduates of MSOE’s Bachelor of Science in Accounting program use creative problem-solving skills to identify solutions in their careers. Plus, courses with an emphasis on artificial intelligence (AI) offer a new way of thinking.
Students in the Bachelor of Science in Finance program can count on gaining real-world experiences coupled with the financial skillsets they need to successfully delve into the financial world after graduation.
Gain a broad background in business through this all-encompassing degree program with balanced electives across operations, technology, marketing, management and finance.
Marketing professionals are experts at identifying new customer opportunities, creating change and developing brand plans to contribute to the bottom line. They are the secret weapons to creating brand loyal customers.
Develop the skillsets to become a leader and innovative collaborator with the power to leverage strategic thinking to improve operating efficiency.
With a B.S. in Technical and Business Management you can use your technical expertise to improve business processes.
Get to know our distinguished Rader School of Business Faculty!
Class of 2023
Accounting
Alex Kuriatnyk
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo