Servant-Leadership | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Servant-Leadership
Servant-Leadership at MSOE
Dedicated to integrating servant-leadership into the fabric of the university through MSOE Mindset development.
In 2004, MSOE established the Office of Servant-Leadership at MSOE, thanks to a major gift from the Suzanne and Richard Pieper Family Foundation. The Pieper Family Endowed Chair for Servant-Leadership works collaboratively with the CREATE Institute to integrate the servant-leadership philosophy throughout the social fabric and culture of the university.
Servant-leadership is a critical component of the
MSOE Mindset
. Servant-leadership starts with a strong dedication to serve and support others. With this mindset, one begins to see the complexity in decision making by considering the impact one’s actions have on others, including those who are indirectly affected. They also begin to realize the importance of how we interface with those around us, appreciating the nuances of interpersonal relations that could otherwise go unnoticed. A servant-leader understands how to ask the right questions instead of simply telling. They strive to empower those they interact with. They are eager to learn. Through practice, they eventually develop the calm confidence to approach difficult, complicated and uncertain situations while always considering the impact on those who are least privileged.
At MSOE, the servant-leadership philosophy is integrated throughout the social fabric and culture of the university.
As the current Chair of Servant-Leadership at MSOE, Gene works to facilitate the servant-leadership mindset throughout MSOE both in the curriculum and within student organizations. Please do not hesitate to reach out to Gene with any questions or ideas you may have related to servant-leadership.
Becoming a servant-leader is both rewarding and easy. Learn what it takes.
Learning by doing is at the heart of the MSOE Experience.
Is your student organization planning a trip soon? The Global Humanitarian Fund supports domestic and international travel initiatives year-round. If you are a MSOE student, staff member or faculty you are invited to apply.
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo