Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management
Buildings, bridges, highways — our graduates are making an impact on the world around us.
1 / 4
Graduates of our Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management (CAECM) Department are not only extremely sought-after (did we mention the 100% placement rate after graduation?), they are national champions who have soul. Hear what our alumni and industry partners say about what makes MSOE graduates so special.
2 / 4
One of three academic programs in MSOE's CAECM Department (and one of only 22 AE programs nationwide), our Architectural Engineering program gives students the curriculum and hands-on experience in AE specialties to transform sketches into structures - and beyond!
3 / 4
Our Civil Engineering program gives students the expertise to plan, design and build the systems that make our world function. From the water we drink, to the roads we drive on, graduates of MSOE's Civil Engineering program are making a global difference.
4 / 4
Our construction management degree melds business, engineering, communication and science to create professionals who facilitate a build - they are the conductors in the construction symphony. Our CM graduates are leaders in the board room and on the job site; our 100% job placement rate says it all.
In the Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department, you’ll benefit from experienced faculty mentors and extensive design studios and laboratory facilities, including the Construction Science and Engineering Center and Johnson Controls Environmental Systems Laboratory. The department offers bachelor’s degrees in both architectural and civil engineering as well as construction management. We also offer master's degrees in both civil engineering and architectural engineering. Our students’ stellar job placement rate (typically 100 percent) and strong record of success in regional and national competitions are evidence of our programs’ quality.
The department’s offices are located in
Campus Center Room 27
and may be reached at (414) 277-7301.
Get to know our faculty in the Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management department.
The CAECM department has four unique Industry Advisory Boards (IAB), one for each undergraduate program (Civil Engineering, Architectural Engineering, Construction Management) and one for graduate programs.
CAECM Career Night
The Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department’s Annual Career Night to be determined. Information will be released in the near future.
CAECM Career Night details
View Academic Catalog
MSOE's course catalog provides our students with detailed information on courses, policies, procedures and more.
View Catalog
CAECM Department
Campus Center - CC27
(414) 277-7301
Virtually Tour MSOE!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo