Departments | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Academic Departments at MSOE
Get to know the departments that house MSOE’s powerhouse programs and faculty.
Rader School of Business
This school is home to MSOE’s undergraduate business administration program (with specializations in accounting, finance, international supply chain and logistics, management information systems, marketing and technical sales) and graduate programs in business administration, education leadership, engineering management, and new product management
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management
This department offers undergraduate programs in architectural engineering, civil engineering and construction management and graduate programs in architectural and civil engineering.
Diercks School of Advanced Computing
This department is home to the computer science and software engineering undergraduate programs as well as the master’s program and graduate certificates in machine learning.
Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering
Choose from undergraduate programs in electrical, computer and biomedical engineering, a graduate program in perfusion, and an undergraduate certificate in AI for emerging applications.
Humanities, Social Science and Communication
This department offers an undergraduate major in user experience and communication design, as well as minors in German studies, psychology, technical communication, Spanish and user experience.
Mathematics
This department houses the actuarial science major and mathematics minor, as well as the foundational math classes required by many of MSOE’s other programs.
Mechanical Engineering
Home to our undergraduate programs in industrial and mechanical engineering, this department also offers a part-time undergraduate engineering program for working adults
School of Nursing
Our School of Nursing offers two undergraduate options — a traditional track and an accelerated second-degree track. The M.S. in Nursing offers a leadership and management track and a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner track.
Physics and Chemistry
This department houses our undergraduate program in chemical and biomolecular engineering and the chemistry and physics minors.
Registrar
Need to change your address, register for class, declare a new major or minor, or drop a class? The Registrar’s Office can help.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo