Rader School of Business | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Departments
Rader School of Business
Rader School of Business
Smart business students know a good investment when they see one, and an MSOE business degree delivers an exceptional ROI.
The Rader School of Business has offered business and management degrees for more than 60 years. Our unique blend of business and technical courses — plus real-world experience gained through internships and innovative laboratories — will give you a competitive edge in today’s dynamic business environment. Our programs emphasize the understanding and application of current technology and the business practices essential for success in the 21st century.
The school’s offices are located in
Rosenberg Hall
and may be reached at (414) 277-7279.
Get to know our faculty in the Rader School of Business.
Learn accounting and finance methods, paradigms, and techniques to become a technical leader on projects integrating accounting into business solutions.
Courses in advanced accounting and finance, management control systems, investment and portfolio analysis, and tax will prepare you for a career in finance and managing a department, division, or business.
Gain a broad background in business through this all-encompassing degree program with balanced electives across operations, technology, marketing, management and finance.
Through courses and real-world projects, you’ll develop marketing skills and learn about market research, advertising strategies, and consumer behavior to identify new customer opportunities and brand plans that contribute to the bottom line.
Develop the skillsets to become a leader and innovative collaborator with the power to leverage strategic thinking to improve operating efficiency.
The AAS to B.S. in Technical and Business Management program prepares students to transfer seamlessly to MSOE to expand their technical expertise and work in a business-to-business sales career.
The MSOE MBA is an innovative program for future leaders who want to solve business problems in a technical world.
MSOE’s MBA in Education Leadership is an innovative program that prepares a new breed of school leader.
Learn the tools needed to effectively manage and participate in the decision-making process, while leveraging your technical background.
From Agile project management to Fluid Power and engineering seminars, we’ll meet your learning needs with an applications-oriented, value-added learning experience.
Rader School of Business
Rosenberg Hall
(414) 277-7279
Undergraduate Retention Rate
86%
Undergraduate Internship Placement Rate
100%
Average Time to Complete a Graduate Degree
1.76 Years
For graduate students who started in 2020-21
Undergraduate Job Placement Rate
100%
View Academic Catalog
MSOE's course catalog provides our students with detailed information on courses, policies, procedures and more.
View Catalog
Virtually Tour MSOE!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
RSOB Named 2025-26 College of Distinction
Rader School of Business recognized as a Business College of Distinction
Accreditation Council for Business Schools & Programs
MSOE Rader School of Business receives accreditation
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo