Center for Teaching and Learning | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
How We Teach
CREATE Institute
Center for Teaching and Learning
Center for Teaching and Learning
In collaboration with MSOE faculty, the Center for Teaching and Learning offers a variety of sessions throughout the year in support of student success and teaching innovation.
Integration of MSOE's Common Learning Outcomes within the Raider Core
The Center for Teaching and Learning offers support with the design of signature assignments intended to address one or more of MSOE's Common Learning Outcomes (CLOs). We offer group workshops focused on strategies to develop and assess the skills associated with each Common Learning Outcome, as well as one-on-one consultations. We assist faculty interested in updating existing assignments, seeking guidance on how to better align the assignments with the CLO, or one designing a new signature assignment. Please contact Dr. Mari Parés-Toral at
pares-toral@msoe.edu
to schedule a one-on-one consultation.
For further information on MSOE's Raider Core and Common Learning Outcomes, please visit
MyMSOE
.
CREATE Institute Professional Development Opportunities
The events hosted by the Center for Teaching and Learning are designed specifically for faculty. Check back for event updates.
Date
Time
Location
Workshop
2/5/2026
12 - 12:50 p.m.
CC-03
Guidance on Building Course Polices for Student Use of AI
3/31/2026
12 - 12:50 p.m.
CC-03
What Makes a Good Learning Artifact? Designing Signature Assignments for Transformative Learning
4/2/2026
12 - 12:50 p.m.
CC-03
Partnering with AI: Designing and Teaching with ChatGPT in the Optical CT Project
4/30/2026
12 - 12:50 p.m.
CC-03
Designing Rubrics: Creating Transparent and Consistent Assessment Tools
Communities of Practice (CoP)
Communities
of Practice (CoP)
offer faculty across academic disciplines
a
collaborative
space to
come together to explore shared interests in teaching, learning, and academic innovation. Through regular dialogue, resource sharing, and reflective practice, members
support one another in developing and enhancing their pedagogical approaches. The Center for Teaching and Learning
facilitates
these communities to foster connection, experimentation, and
sustained
professional growth.
Current Communities of Practice
(academic year 2025-2026)
:
Exploring the Implementation of Amplify AI for Teaching and Learning
:
As MSOE continues to advance in its integration of AI in its curricula and teaching practices, we invite you to join our new CoP that will focus on exploring the platform
Amplify GenAI
and its uses as a campus-wide tool that could potentially be available to faculty, students, and staff.
C
oP on the Scholarship of Teachin
g and Learning
:
This Community of Practice (CoP) invites faculty from across MSOE to come together and explore the
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (
SoTL
)
– a field of research focused on systematically investigating the impact of instructional strategies (classroom learning activities, assessments, etc.) on student learning.
SoTL
integrates research and teaching as complementary activities that strengthen one another. Through collaboration with peers,
you’ll
have the opportunity to develop or refine a
SoTL
project, gain insights into your teaching, and contribute to MSOE’s culture of evidence-based teaching and continuous improvement
.
Past Communities of Practice:
Artificial Intelligence (A
I
)
in Higher Education
:
During the academic year, 2024-2025, this CoP
brought together faculty to explore the role of artificial intelligence
(AI)
in teaching and learning. Members examined AI from diverse disciplinary
perspectives, focusing on ethical and responsible use, student AI literacy, and practical classroom applications. The group developed sample assignments, assessments, and teaching strategies, and explored tools like Microsoft 365 Copilot to enhance instructional effectiveness and meet evolving learner needs.
Faculty Professional Development Resources
The following resources are available to faculty and cover a wide variety of topics:
CREATE Institute Resource Library
:
Located within CC-02, the Resource Library contains a variety of books available for check-out with topics on pedagogy, servant leadership and mindset development. New titles are added throughout the year.
Engineering Unleashed
:
Engineering Unleashed is a community of more than 4,000 faculty and staff with the goal of developing the entrepreneurial mindset within students. Its website contains a variety of resources, including cards which are online templates for members to share teaching and learning materials and more.
Faculty Focus
:
Free online journal written by faculty, instructional designers and other higher education professionals, sharing advice on what is and is not working in the classroom and online.
The Chronicle of Higher Education
:
The Chronicle provides news, advice and commentary on higher education.  The MSOE Library receives access to digital articles, and is available via several library databases.
Inside Higher Ed
:
Online news, analysis and solutions regarding all things higher education. Visitors can view up to five articles a month without an account. Account registration is free and provides unlimited news articles and opinion pieces.
Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
:
The OLC is dedicated to advancing quality digital teaching and learning experiences. Its website has a variety of open-access resources, including the Online Learning Journal.
EDUCAUSE Review
:
Open-access journal focused on information technology in higher education, covering its role in teaching and learning, student success and a variety of other higher education domains.
New Faculty Resources
The Center for Teaching and Learning is here to ensure the success of all new faculty. We provide robust resources tailored for all faculty new to MSOE, including the following:
New Faculty Onboarding:
For new full-time faculty, we provide a two-week, in-person onboarding program prior to the start of Fall Semester that includes seminars on university resources, services and policies, as well as opportunities to network and work on preparing for the academic year with the support of the CREATE Institute staff. For adjunct faculty as well as other faculty who join MSOE throughout the school year, we provide an evening of onboarding or one-on-one sessions, depending on the size of the cohort.
New Faculty Mentor Program:
All new faculty are matched with a faculty mentor from their respective academic department. The faculty mentor-mentee relationship provides crucial one-on-one guidance and support throughout the first year at MSOE. The CREATE Institute collaborates with academic departments to coordinate mentorship opportunities.
Educational Technology Resources
For all educational technology needs, including Canvas, faculty can request assistance, access to resources, or schedule a one on one training with a member of the
IT Department
by submitting a
Help Desk
ticket.
View the real-world projects led by the CREATE team.
CREATE Institute
(414) 277-2201
CREATE@msoe.edu
MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey.
Learn more
CREATE Institute Team
Meet the team that works closely with faculty, staff, students and industry partners to foster the growth of the MSOE Mindset.
Meet the CREATE team
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo