Industrial Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Industrial engineers are often seen as facilitators of change. Industrial engineering is primarily concerned with the design and continuous improvement of systems by effectively integrating people, processes and technology.
Industrial engineers play key roles in virtually every business and industry today. By focusing on critical processes and systems, industrial engineers are making these businesses more efficient, effective and productive.
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our industrial engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Industrial engineering course work establishes a solid engineering foundation, upon which specialized technical and management knowledge and skill sets are built. Educational experiences include a variety of business/industry projects, which enable our graduates to make significant contributions in diverse enterprises such as manufacturing, warehousing and distribution, insurance, banking, consulting and health care.
You may want to consider IE if you…
Possess abilities in logic, judgment, math, organization and leadership
Enjoy seeking ways to improve and streamline processes and systems
Prefer activities involving technical and business aspects
Enjoy interacting with diverse groups of people
Have strong written and oral communication skills
Accreditation
The Industrial Engineering (BS) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Industrial Engineering.
Read more about MSOE's Industrial Engineering undergraduate degree.
Career Outcomes
92%
We're proud that 92% of our 2024–25 graduates from the industrial engineering program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished IE faculty!
Class of 1982
Industrial Engineering
Robert Bettinardi
Associate Professor
Industrial Engineering
Dr. Leah Newman
Class of 2016
Industrial Engineering
Lauren Boyle
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Leah Newman
(414) 277-7166
newman@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo