Hydraulic Systems Volume 3: Hydraulic Fluids and Contamination Control | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Center for Professional Education
Fluid Power Seminars
Public Seminars and Events
Hydraulic Systems Volume 3: Hydraulic Fluids and Contamination Control
Hydraulic Systems Volume 3: Hydraulic Fluids and Contamination Control
Contamination control is a crucial matter for hydraulic systems to survive and to sustain their reliability and performance. Hydraulic fluids are inevitably contaminated by various sources. Hydraulic fluid contamination is not limited to just the particulate contaminants as many people may think. Hydraulic fluid contamination can be broadly defined as any internal or external reason that can change the properties or performance of the fluid. Therefore, this 2-day (12-hour) seminar is designed to cover the knowledge of hydraulic fluids and contamination control.
The seminar discusses thoroughly the different types of hydraulic fluids, their properties and standard methods of testing. The seminar also covers all types of contamination, their sources, effects, standards, and best practices to avoid and control them. This course is only offered as private group training. A minimum of 10 students OR a minimum charge of $8000 is required to register.
Program Overview
This course is only offered as private group training. A minimum of 10 students OR a minimum charge of $9000 is required to register
CEUs:
1.2 |
PDHs:
12
Cost:
$900 per person
Who Should Attend
Application engineers, system integrators, field service engineers, maintenance and troubleshooting personnel.
Seminar attendees receive a copy of
“
Hydraulic Systems Volume 3: Hydraulic Fluids and Contamination Control
”
Upon successful completion, you will be able to:
Recognize the different types of hydraulic fluids, their properties and their standard test methods.
Figure out the sources, symptoms, effects and best practices to avoid various types of contamination.
Know how to perform hydraulic fluid sampling, analysis, and to interpret analysis report.
Evaluate filter performance.
Control contamination in hydraulic transmission lines.
Program Details
Course Outline
Chapter 1: Introduction
Chapter 2: Hydraulic Fluids
Chapter 3: Energetic Contamination
Chapter 4: Gaseous Contamination
Chapter 5: Fluidic Contamination
Chapter 6: Chemical Contamination
Chapter 7: Particulate Contamination
Chapter 8: Hydraulic Fluid Analysis
Chapter 9: Hydraulic Filters Performance Ratings
Chapter 10: Contamination Control in Hydraulic Transmission Lines
Agenda
Days 1:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Days 2:
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. – Lunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Link to full agenda
Continental breakfast and lunch will be served daily. Beverages/Snacks provided throughout the day.
Instructors:
Dr. Medhat Khalil
– Director of Professional Education & Research Development, Applied Technology Center
TM
, Milwaukee School of Engineering
Paul Michael
– Director, Fluid Power Institute
TM
Register Now!
Register today to secure your seat for this seminar
Register
Dr. Medhat Khalil
(414) 277-7269
khalil@msoe.edu
Cell (414) 940-2232
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo