Civil Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
Civil Engineering
M.S. in Civil Engineering
Advance your career with MSOE's Master of Science in Civil Engineering. Specialize in construction, environmental and water resources, transportation, or structural engineering while gaining expertise in AI and cutting-edge tools for the built environment.
MSOE's Master of Science in Civil Engineering combines core civil engineering topics with depth in specialized areas, preparing graduates to lead complex projects and advance in their careers. The curriculum integrates sustainability across all building and infrastructure design disciplines. This program offers students the opportunity to gain depth in one of four areas of specialization:
Construction Management
- advanced topics in construction operations, lean construction, and data management, plus business principles.
Environmental and Water Resources Engineering
- facilities planning, environmental law, life cycle assessment, and technical courses in water resources.
Transportation Engineering
- roadway design, traffic analysis, pavement design, and safety.
Structural Engineering
- advanced design and analysis of steel, concrete, wood, masonry, and foundations, plus structural dynamics and stability.
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
In-person classes
31 credits
Personal statement
Official undergraduate transcripts
1 Letter of Recommendation (only required if GPA is below 3.0)
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Civil Engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum Format
Courses are taught by faculty with extensive industry experience and academic credentials. Flexible scheduling supports both full-time students and working professionals.
Each student must complete a sequence of capstone courses. There are two options for the capstone activity.
The first option is the completion of a seven-credit, two-semester Capstone Project sequence (CAE 7810, CVE 7901 and CVE 7902) in addition to eight civil engineering courses (24 credits) to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
The second option is the completion of a four-credit, one-semester Capstone Report sequence (CAE 7810 and CVE 7901) in addition to nine civil engineering courses (27 credits) to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
The Master of Science in Civil Engineering program assumes the student has completed an undergraduate curriculum that satisfies ABET program-specific civil engineering requirements.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the CAECM Early Entry Master’s program can apply here.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Civil Engineering graduate degree.
Get to know our distinguished civil engineering faculty!
Class of 2023
M.S. in Civil Engineering
Alexis Countryman
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo