High School Programs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
High School Programs
High School Programs
MSOE’s programs for high school students are great opportunities to learn about the STEM fields you are interested in while also deciding if MSOE is for you.
Two dozen high school girls spent a Saturday at MSOE to learn more about the field of mechanical engineering. One of their favorite parts of the day was a team-based engineering challenge. They designed and built self-propelled cars using common household items such as a mousetrap, CDs, string and paint sticks. Check out their results!
Every year, thousands of students visit MSOE to take part in a variety of specialized programs and competitions designed to foster and continue student’s excitement for the STEM fields. Find out how you can participate.
If you like computers, math and science, there’s a good chance one of our programs will interest you. Check out the ways we introduce you to the career possibilities at MSOE!
With MSOE’s Summer Programs, students will be able to determine if Engineering, Nursing or Business is a good fit for them as well as what is important to them in their college search.
The PLTW Summer Summit at MSOE will allow students to explore various engineering degrees and determine which is a good fit for them as well as what is important in their upcoming college and career search.
Inspiring the next generation of leaders in STEM.
The Early College Credit Program (formerly Youth Options or YOP) enables students from area high schools to pursue college course work at MSOE at the shared expense of your school district and MSOE.
Rising Raiders Scholars Program is a four-year cohort-based program focused on academic exploration.
The Opportunity Conferences are math, science and computer science competitions for high school students.
The Science Bowl is a double elimination tournament-style academic competition that challenges and recognizes a student’s knowledge of science and mathematics.
Join MSOE and Society of Women Engineers (SWE) on Jan. 19, 2026 for a day of hands-on activities in various engineering disciplines
The Senior Design Scholars (SDS) Program at MSOE offers high school seniors a unique opportunity to engage in real-world, collegiate-level design projects by joining senior design teams during their final semester of high school.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Looking for K-8 Programs?
See more options aimed at students in K-8.
Click Here
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo