B.S. in Nursing - Traditional Track | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
Nursing
B.S. in Nursing - Traditional Track
B.S. in Nursing - Traditional Track
At MSOE’s School of Nursing, students learn how to combine compassion, critical thinking, technology and science. Students can apply the knowledge they gain in the classroom and laboratory to a variety of complex clinical experiences.
The traditional full-time curriculum track is designed specifically for students who are earning their first college degree. Generally, these are students who have graduated from high school and are beginning their college education or students who have earned college credits at another university and are transferring those credits to MSOE. Students are accepted directly into the nursing major. Progression through the sequence of clinical courses is guaranteed to all students who maintain full-time status and continue to meet the academic progression criteria.
Become a healthcare hero at MSOE!
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our traditional track nursing degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Incoming freshman students can live alongside like-minded individuals and collaborate with both the School of Nursing and Residence Life to engage in academic support and community-building.
The Anatomy and Physiology JumpStart program will help you develop your skills and gain confidence working on the structured objectives in ALEKS, connect with Anatomy and Physiology faculty and build your MSOE community.
You may want to consider NU if you …
Enjoy helping others and want to improve peoples’ lives
Are able to work well in a team environment
Possess strong written and oral communication skills
Are able to prioritize and complete multiple, time-constrained requirements effectively
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master's degree program in nursing at Milwaukee School of Engineering are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org
) and have full approval of the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services
(http://dsps.wi.gov)
State Licensure
MSOE is required by the Department of Education to provide enrolled and prospective students and their parents certain information. The information in this section includes disclosures as required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) of 2008. Below is an indication of whether the
B.S. in Nursing - Traditional
program meets the educational requirements for licensure in all US states and territories.
Satisfies Educational Requirements:
WI, AL, AK, AS, AZ, AR, CA, CT, DE, FL, GA, GU, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MP, MS, MO, MT, NE, NV, NH, NJ, NM, NY, NC, ND, OH, OK, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VT, VA, VI, WA, WV, WY
Does Not Satisfy Educational Requirements:
None
No Determination Made:
CO, DC, HI, KY
Read more about MSOE's B.S. in Nursing – Traditional Track undergraduate degree.
A helpful list of questions and answers about the traditional BSN program.
Career Outcomes
100%
We're proud that 100% of our 2024–25 graduates from the nursing program are fully employed, enrolled in graduate school or enlisted in a branch of the military after graduation.
2025 Career Connections Center Annual Report
Get to know our distinguished nursing faculty!
The Ruehlow Nursing Complex is a technology-rich experiential learning and simulation center that trains the nurses of tomorrow.
Class of 2001
Nursing – Traditional Track
Clover L. Barnes
Professor
Nursing – Traditional Track
Dr. Jane Paige
Class of 2014
Nursing – Traditional Track
Emily Plaski
Students
09.08.2023
Learning the ropes: Nursing LLC students kick off year with team building retreat
The new Nursing Living Learning Community (LLC) at MSOE kicked off the academic year with a retreat focused on team building in Lake Geneva. Students worked…
Read More
MSOE
02.27.2023
MSOE develops new Living Learning Community for freshman nursing students
Milwaukee School of Engineering is establishing a new Nursing Living Learning Community (LLC).
The first cohort of freshman nursing students who choose…
Read More
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Dr. Amy Ketchum
Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Program Director
(414) 277-2424
ketchum@msoe.edu
School of Nursing
(414) 277-7158
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Nursing Living Learning Community Inquiry Form
Interested in learning more about the Nursing Living Learning Community? Fill out the inquiry form to find out more!
Inquiry Form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo