Structural Engineering | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Engineering
Structural Engineering
M.S. in Structural Engineering
MSOE’s Master of Science in Structural Engineering equips engineers with advanced skills in the analysis and design of buildings and bridges.
MSOE’s M.S. in Structural Engineering is designed for professionals seeking advanced expertise in structural analysis and design. This program focuses exclusively on structural engineering, offering depth in theory and practical applications for buildings and bridges.
Students will study advanced topics such as:
Design of structural steel, reinforced concrete, wood, masonry and foundations
Structural system selection and design
Structural dynamics and stability
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
In-person classes
31 credits
Official undergraduate transcripts
Personal statement
1 Letter of Recommendation (only required if GPA is below 3.0)
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Structural Engineering degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Curriculum Format
Courses are taught by faculty with extensive industry experience and academic credentials. Flexible scheduling supports both full-time students and working professionals.
Each student must complete a sequence of capstone courses. There are two options for the capstone activity.
The first option is the completion of a seven-credit, two-semester Capstone Project sequence in addition to 8 structural engineering courses to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
The second option is the completion of a four-credit, one-semester Capstone Report sequence in addition to nine civil engineering courses to fulfill the 31-credit requirement.
The Master of Science in Structural Engineering program assumes the student has completed an undergraduate curriculum that satisfies ABET program-specific civil, architectural or structural  engineering requirements.
Admissions Process
Submit application online
here
.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the CAECM Early Entry Master’s program can apply here.
More details about MSOE's M.S. in Structural Engineering graduate degree will be announced in March 2026!
Get to know our distinguished civil engineering faculty!
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo