Engineering Management | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Academics
Graduate Degrees
Business
Engineering Management
Master of Science in Engineering Management
The engineering management program is best described as a master’s degree in business with a technological orientation. You’ll learn the tools needed to effectively manage and participate in the decision-making process, while leveraging your technical background.
The Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) program is a technology-oriented management degree designed to meet the needs of engineers, business managers, and other professional and technical personnel desiring to strengthen their management and leadership skills. Graduates of the program possess broad business management knowledge and skills and are prepared to move into leadership positions in a wide range of industries.
The MSEM program is based on the philosophy that, for companies to grow and compete domestically and internationally, their managers and leaders need a deep understanding of technology, management, and effective leadership principles. Faculty members have extensive business experience and are committed to mentoring students to increase students’ value to current and prospective employers. Areas of particular emphasis include organizational leadership, project management, operations management, financial management, technical sales and marketing, entrepreneurship, quality and continuous improvement, policy and strategy, supply chain management, and international business.
*STEM designated program for international students*
Mode of Delivery
Program Credits
Admissions Requirements
Online asynchronous
31 credits
Official undergraduate transcripts
Resume
Personal statement
Ready to learn more about Milwaukee School of Engineering and our Master of Science in Engineering Management degree? Filling out the application is fast and easy!
Maxwell Merget, MSEM '23
MSEM Specializations
The Master of Science in Engineering Management program offers three areas of specialization: general, new product management, or analytics.
MSEM General
The general MSEM is for the professional desiring to further their career with a technical and strategic focus.
MSEM in New Product Management
The MSEM in New Product Management provides students a framework to enhance an organization’s ability to effectively identify, develop and deploy new products and services. You will learn how to apply the tools and knowledge needed to find the products and/or services that are aligned with the unique strengths and position of an organization. The program will prepare you to identify and capitalize on both domestic and international product markets. For professionals with more business-oriented goals, MSOE also offers an MBA in New Product Management.
MSEM in Analytics
The MSEM in Analytics provides students with the skillsets they need to strategically utilize technology and social context to analyze, evaluate and solve business problems.
Admissions Process
Submit application online.
Submit supporting documents to admissions counselor via email or mail.
Completed file reviewed by program director for admission decision.
Upon acceptance, submit your enrollment deposit to secure your spot in the program and gain access to pre-program modules.
Find more information here
.
Get access to your myMSOE account and MSOE email.
Admissions Office registers you for appropriate coursework and sends schedule when finalized by the Registrar’s Office.
You are officially an MSOE Raider!
Graduate Tuition
Graduate Financial Aid
Current MSOE students with junior (60-89 credits) standing wanting to apply for the MSEM Early Entry graduate program can apply here.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Engineering Management graduate degree program.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Engineering Management in Analytics specialization.
Read more about MSOE's M.S. in Engineering Management in New Product Management program.
Get to know our distinguished Rader School of Business faculty!
Accreditation
The Rader School of Business at Milwaukee School of Engineering is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP)
for all graduate and undergraduate business programs.
Lucia Kohne
Director of Graduate Admissions
(414) 277-7331
kohne@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Dan Pavletich
Program Director
(414) 277-2486
pavletich@msoe.edu
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo