Applying for Financial Aid | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid Basics
Applying for Financial Aid
Applying for Financial Aid
MSOE encourages all eligible students to file the FAFSA so they can be offered the maximum amount of aid for which they are eligible. Follow the steps below and feel free to contact the Financial Aid Office at any step in the process.
Undergraduate students will be awarded an
academic merit scholarship upon acceptance to MSOE. Other scholarship opportunities
based on their co-curricular participation are also available. To receive a full and comprehensive financial aid offer that includes state, federal, and institutional need-based aid, students must complete the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA) yearly.
Students not wishing to file the FAFSA must contact the Financial Aid Office and notify us yearly.
Step 1: Create an Account on Studentaid.gov (FSA ID)
In order to log in and sign the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), both the student and one parent need to create an
FSA ID
from the U.S. Department of Education (ED).  In order to create an FSA ID, please visit
studentaid.gov.
Students will use their FSA ID to access the student aid dashboard, apply for FAFSA, and view loan history.
Step 2: Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) *
Note changes for the 2026-2027 FAFSA*
You can file the FAFSA online at
studentaid.gov
or through the
My Student Aid Mobile Application.
When filing, you will need to list MSOE’s school code, which is 003868. You can start filing the FAFSA beginning in October for the next academic year.
Returning students must reapply for financial aid each year.
All FAFSA contributors will be required to use the IRS Direct Data Exchange to share tax information or to confirm non-filing status.
MSOE receives your submitted application electronically from the U.S. Department of Education. We will notify you upon receipt of your completed FAFSA. MSOE begins processing applications and sending offers out in early January for prospective MSOE students and early April for returning MSOE students.
Financial Aid offers for the 2026-2027 year are expected to be mailed out beginning in early January 2026 for new students, and early April 2026 for returning students.
The FAFSA deadline for determining Wisconsin State Grant eligibility is February 1st, 2026. FAFSAs filed after that date may not be eligible for Wisconsin State Grant funding due to limited funding.
Step 3: Complete Verification (if selected)
Verification is the federal process of confirming the information provided on the FAFSA is accurate. The Student Aid Report (SAR) you receive after your FAFSA is processed will indicate if your FAFSA has been selected for verification. Roughly one third of all FAFSAs filed are selected for this process. You can view general information about this process on our Cover Sheet found on our
Forms and Resources Page
.
If selected, you may be required to submit an MSOE Verification Worksheet plus the following documents to MSOE:
Your and your parents’ IRS Tax Transcript. You and your parents can request IRS tax transcripts by visiting the
IRS Website
. Or you can update your FAFSA application using the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. This tool will allow you and your parents to transfer tax information directly from the IRS on to the FAFSA.
Independent students and parents of dependent students who did not file a federal tax return may need to request an IRS Non-Filing Letter.
Please follow the instructions on the Verification Worksheet to guide you through what needs to be submitted. A comprehensive list of missing information will be emailed to continuing students and available through their My Financial Aid Portal, whereas incoming students will receive a letter at their home address.
MSOE will notify you by mail or MSOE email if you are selected for verification. MSOE cannot disburse your federal and state aid until completion of the verification process.
Step 4: Respond to Your Aid Offer and Complete Next Steps:
Upon receipt of the FAFSA, MSOE will use it to determine your eligibility for institutional, state and federal funds. The MSOE Financial Aid Office will generate a financial aid offer listing all eligible financial aid. MSOE anticipates mailing out new student financial aid offers in mid-March and returning MSOE students will receive an offer notification via MSOE email after May 1st.
Accepting Financial Aid:
Scholarships and Grants will be automatically accepted. Students must accept or decline all or a portion of any loans or work-study offered by visiting the
MSOE Financial Aid Portal
and logging in with your (the student's) my.msoe.edu username and password.
First Time Direct Loan Borrowers & Transfer Students Must Complete the Following:
Direct Loan Entrance Counseling:
Go to
studentaid.gov
. This tutorial takes approximately 20 minutes to complete. Please use the same student FSA ID used to sign the FAFSA to sign into this website. Also utilize your MSOE financial aid letter when completing this counseling.
Direct Loan Master Promissory Note:
Go to
studentaid.gov
to complete this process. Use your FSA ID to sign into this website. This is the loan agreement.
Final High School Transcripts:
For all federal loans and grants to disburse, students must turn in their Final High School Transcript to MSOE's Enrollment Office.
Step 5: Additional Options to Cover Your Bill
After receiving your financial aid offer, there are other options to further cover the gap between your Cost of Attendance and Financial Aid Offer.
Parent PLUS Loans:
Parent PLUS Loans are Federal Loans taken out in the parent's name and applied to the student account. Please visit our
Parent PLUS Loan Page
for more information.
Alternative/Private Loans for Students and Parents:
Please visit our
Alternative Loan Page
for more information and to view our Historical Lender List, and Fast Choice Tool.
Outside and Miscellaneous Scholarships:
MSOE has a comprehensive
Money Matters Page
that outlines opportunities and scholarship search engines.
Monthly Payment Plan:
Our Student Accounts Office offers an interest free payment plan to make payments more manageable. Visit their
Payment Plan Page
for more information.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo