Student Accounts | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Tuition & Fees
Student Accounts
Student Accounts Office
The Student Accounts Office mission is to help you navigate and manage your MSOE expenses, so you can focus on what is really important—your education.
Our office is responsible for the billing and collection of tuition, fees, and other charges for students. In support of this function, the office issues refunds to students who have credit balances on their accounts, assist with account questions, and prepares & issues the annual federal tax form 1098-T to students. In addition to these services, the Student Accounts staff handles a variety of other student account-related matters and is pleased to assist with any inquiries.
Important New Student Information
MSOE Tuition
- See the costs and fees for
Undergraduate
and
Graduate
tuition when attending MSOE.
Financial Aid Estimator
- New or transferring students can get an estimate of how much financial aid they will be receiving for the school year.
MSOE Expense Planner
- After finding out your tuition and financial aid, use our planner to see how much you may need to pay out of pocket.
Enrollment Deposit
- Confirm your placement at MSOE by submitting an enrollment deposit.
Important Student Information
myMSOE
- On myMSOE, students will have access to various department information, register for classes, access Student Account forms, and access the online payment portal to view statements and make payment.
Student Account Forms
- All forms from the Student Accounts Office can be found and filled out online.
View Your Statement on Transact
- Students can view their billing information and statements online.
Making a Payment
- MSOE has different ways a student can pay from traditional mailing to online payments.
Semester Payment Plan
- MSOE offers a semester payment plan option through Transact (online only).
Tuition & Fee FAQs
- Have any questions? check out our FAQs.
Bill Due Dates
Payment is due on the third Monday of each term. Students are responsible for making sure that the amount owed is paid by the due date.
Term
2025-2026 Due Dates
Fall Semester
Sept. 15, 2025
Spring Semester
Feb. 2, 2026
Accounts not paid in full or enrolled in a payment plan
are
subject to a 1% finance charge each month until the balance is paid.  Accounts with outstanding balances will have a financial hold placed on the account, which may prevent registration and the ability to receive transcripts or a diploma.
Financial Aid Disbursement
Students must be enrolled full-time (12+ credits) to receive any MSOE-sponsored aid (scholarships or grants). Students who register part-time (1-11 credits), will receive an email during the first week of the term notifying them that their MSOE scholarships/grants will be removed. In addition to the loss of MSOE gift aid, undergraduate students enrolled for less than six credits are not eligible for federal or state aid and will also be notified during the first week of the term. After the first week, no aid will be updated based on enrollment status. All processed financial aid will transfer to your student account during the second week of the term and on a rolling basis from that time forward.
Please note that Federal Work-Study is earned and paid through semi-monthly paychecks and not directly applied to your student account.
MSOE Tuition & Fees
Housing & Meal Plan Costs
Making a Payment
Parking & Other Fees
Scholarships & Grants
Semester Payment Plan
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo