MSOE Honors Program | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Undergraduate Admissions
MSOE Honors Program
MSOE Honors Program
The MSOE Honors Program focuses on scholarship and engagement for some of our highest-achieving undergraduates.
Learning in a close-knit community of their peers, the program's curriculum challenges MSOE's best and brightest. Students are exposed to a curriculum that combines experiential learning, real-world projects and community service. In the MSOE Honors Program, you will enhance your MSOE education with honors-level courses that will allow you to explore innovative ideas, build relationships with classmates and key Milwaukee community members, and complete projects that pair engineering skills with a healthy dose of creativity.
Benefits of the program include:
Challenging courses and hands-on curriculum
Networking opportunities with important members of the Milwaukee community
The opportunity to impact the community around you with creative, real-world service projects
Guaranteed housing in our living/learning community located in MSOE's newest residence hall,
Hermann Viets Tower
To apply for the MSOE Honors Program, s
tudents must have a minimum 3.8 unweighted high school GPA or higher.
Invitations to apply for the program are mailed starting in
November
. Please contact your admissions counselor for additional details.
Interested? Contact Honors Program Director Michael Carriere, Ph.D. at
carriere@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7363 or the Honors Program Admissions Coordinator Katelyn Bailey at
bailey@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-4544.
2 / 6
MSOE Honors Program students tour Growing Power urban farm.
3 / 6
MSOE Honors Program students tour the Global Water Center.
4 / 6
MSOE Program students designed and built a solar food dehydrator for a small village in Jamaica.
5 / 6
"Martin Luther King, Jr. Peace Place Park. MSOE Honors Program students worked on both the design and build of this new park in the Harambee neighborhood of Milwaukee."
6 / 6
MSOE Honors Program students present their work to a delegation from China.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo