Determine Dependency Status | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid Basics
Applying for Financial Aid
Determine Dependency Status
Determine Dependency Status
In order to determine if you have to provide parental information on the FAFSA, you will have to answer a series of questions.  If you have questions about your FAFSA dependency status, please reach out to the MSOE Financial Aid Office.
If you can answer YES to ANY of the following statements below, you are considered an independent student for financial aid purposes. If you answer NO to ALL of the following statements, you are considered a dependent student for financial aid purposes. As a dependent student you are required to include your parents’ information on the FAFSA regardless of whether your parents claim you on their taxes.
I was born before January 1, 2003.
I was married as of the date I filed the FAFSA.
I have children or other dependents who receive more than half of their financial support from me now and between July 1st, 2026 and June 30th, 2027.
I will be working on a master’s degree at the beginning of the school year.
I am currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training and state duty.
I am a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces. You would not be considered a veteran for FAFSA purposes if you:
Never engaged in active duty in the U.S. armed forces;
Were in ROTC or enrolled in a service academy;
Are currently serving in the U.S. armed forces and will continue to serve through June 30th, 2027; or
Were engaged in active duty in the U.S. armed forces but were released under dishonorable conditions.
When I was 13 or older, both of my parents were deceased, I was in foster care, or I was a dependent or ward of the court.
As of the date I filed the FAFSA, I was an emancipated minor or in legal guardianship determined by a court in my state of legal residence.
On or after July 1st, 2025, I was unaccompanied and either homeless at risk of being homeless as determined by:
a high school or district homeless liaison or designee;
the director or designee of an emergency or transitional shelter, street outreach program, homeless youth drop-in center, or another program serving those experiencing homeless;
the director or designee of a project supported by a federal TRIO program or GEAR UP grant program; or
a financial aid administrator.
If you answer
NO
to all of the statements above but have unusual circumstances that prevent you from contacting your parents or if doing so would put you at risk, please reach out to the MSOE Financial Aid Office to schedule a meeting to discuss your situation.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo