S-STEM Scholarship | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
S-STEM Scholarship
S-STEM Scholarship
The National Science Foundation (NSF) Scholarship in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) at MSOE is designed to promote success to eligible mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, and computer science students.
The NSF S-STEM scholarship is awarded to financially eligible, academically talented mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, and computer science undergraduates who have completed their first (fall) semester of freshman year. Approximately fifteen students will be selected from two freshman cohorts to receive four-year scholarships that will enable them to focus on their education. S-STEM will operate concurrently with MSOE’s strategic plan to build an inclusive community of experiential learners and set the standard for preparing leaders to solve the technological challenges of the 21st century.
MSOE’s S-STEM program is built on high-impact practices that include:
Living Learning Communities
Faculty, peer and industry mentorship
Team building
Participation in professional organizations
Career enhancement
Industry shadowing
Internships
Undergraduate research
Important Dates
Program Dates
: Current grant concludes in Spring 2026. Submitting proposal for renewal.
Application deadline
: October 1, 2026 (if funded)
S-STEM Program Overview
S-STEM scholars have the opportunity to participate in transformational experiences that support retention, engagement, enrichment and graduation. They are expected to maintain a GPA of 3.0 or above to continue to receive the scholarship through graduation. The program offers its scholars:
Mentorship and Advising:
Regular meetings with faculty advisors and Raider Success Coaches for encouragement and guidance towards academic success.
Intentional Group Activities:
Each semester will feature one intentional group activity. These include visits to Discovery World, Abbot Laboratories, Northwestern University Imaging Laboratory (MRI), ASME seminars, facilities tours at local industries and more.
Summer Workshop:
Annual summer workshops feature team-building exercises and provide opportunities to articulate goals and aspirations for the following year.
Outreach Opportunities:
S-STEM scholars will serve as role models and mentors to high school and future potential students through events sponsored by the MSOE STEM Center and Milwaukee Public Schools (MPS).
Who Should Apply?
Students who are currently in their freshman year of the mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, or computer science programs who have demonstrated a financial need (based on FAFSA) and are academically talented (GPA of 2.75 or greater) should apply. The Financial Aid Office will help establish financial eligibility. Applicants are required to provide an unofficial transcript to establish the potential for academic success.
The applicant must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident of the United States and give an informed consent to the dissemination of information on programmatic activities and experiences as a part of the National Science Foundation sponsored scholarship. Accepted candidates will participate in the activities outlined above. The scholarship per each academic year is paid in portions for each semester, not to exceed $10,000 in any given year.
How to Apply
Required Application Materials
Application form
(to be filled out online)
Short essays on why you want to participate in the S-STEM program and why you chose the field of mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, or computer science (part of application).
A reference familiar with your academic or work history and passion for STEM who we can contact (part of application)
Your MSOE unofficial transcript as soon as the first semester grades are available
Application materials must be received by the specified due date. Only complete applications will be reviewed.
Submit Your Application
Send your application materials by the application deadline to
STEMscholar@msoe.edu
. Shortlisted applicants will receive an invitation for an interview with a panel of STEM administrators to be held on Microsoft Teams. For any questions, contact Dr. Mohammad Mahinfalah at
mahinfalah@msoe.edu
.
S-STEM Team
Dr. Mohammad Mahinfalah, Principal Investigator
Dr. Subha Kumpaty, Co-Principal Investigator
Dr. Jan Fertig, Co-Principal Investigator/Social Science Researcher
Ms. Cassie Vosters, STEM Administrator, Raider Success Coach
Dr. Luis Rodriguez, Faculty Advisor
Dr. Cynthia Barnicki, Faculty Advisor
Dr. Katie Wikoff, Program Faculty
Ms. Betty Albrecht, Advisory Staff
Mr. Gary Shimek, Advisory Staff
Ms. Judith Eroe, External Evaluator
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo