Graduate Admissions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Looking to accelerate your career? Discover the powerful advantages of an MSOE graduate degree or certificate.
If you’re considering adding a graduate program into your already packed schedule, you want to make sure you’re getting your money’s worth. Fortunately, MSOE is well known for its high quality academics, impressive job placement rates and strong salaries (the highest early and mid-career salaries of any Wisconsin university, according to PayScale, Inc.).
The
MSOE Advantage
pays off in a multitude of ways. MSOE’s graduate programs are designed for busy working professionals, with in-person, hybrid and 100 percent online options. Let MSOE help take your career to the next level.
We offer programs in business, engineering and health-related professions
Whether you’re just exploring graduate studies or are looking to bolster your knowledge in a particular area, MSOE’s master’s certificates are a great place to start.  Check out our graduate certificate offering to see how MSOE can help you achieve your career goals.
An MSOE education is not only a terrific investment — it also might be more affordable than you’d expect.
Explore the variety of loans, scholarships and financial aid opportunities that you may be eligible to take advantage of at MSOE.
Graduate Admissions
1025 N Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
grad@msoe.edu
Text +1 (414) 559 5756
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Request Information
Register for events, check your application status or request more information!
Let's get started
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo