Undergraduate Admissions Checklist | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions Checklist
Undergraduate Admissions Checklist
Here’s your step-by-step guide to becoming an MSOE student.
We’re committed to making the admissions process as simple and straightforward as possible. We’d rather get the paperwork out of the way quickly so you can focus on your campus visit and other college-planning fun. Start here:
Meet our friendly Admissions staff, tour our state-of-the-art labs and classrooms, and discover the other fun that awaits you in our vibrant neighborhood in downtown Milwaukee.
Have 10 minutes to spare? Your journey at MSOE starts with our simple and free online application.
Don’t forget to submit the Free Application for Federal Student AID (FAFSA) to maximize your college savings. The priority deadline for filing the FAFSA is October 1 of the year you plan to enroll.
Once you’ve been accepted, reserve your seat in next year’s class.
You’ll love living in MSOE’s fun, walkable neighborhood. Choose your future home from among our well-equipped residence halls and themed living communities.
Now for the really fun stuff! Check out all that MSOE has to offer and start thinking about how you’ll get involved on campus. Whether it is competing in a sport, playing an instrument, or riding a unicycle, we're certain there's something for you. Get plugged into the latest campus happenings by following us on Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Request Information
Do you have questions about MSOE? Interested in learning more about events, your application status or our campus? Fill out this quick form and we will get back to you as soon as we can!
Let's get started
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo