International Admissions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
International Admissions
Welcome! MSOE is a destination for students from around the world, and we’d love to welcome you into the MSOE family.
MSOE has a growing international student population. This international flavor brings richness to our campus and into the classroom — a perspective that is more important than ever with the rapid pace of globalization.   MSOE is a small private university in Wisconsin that offers a very different experience than many larger public universities — and above-average outcomes after graduation.
Learn more about why so many international students choose MSOE.
1 / 2
What makes MSOE a unique place for international students to learn, grow, and succeed? Current students Thanvi Gorrepati and Quang Vuong share why they chose MSOE and how their experiences on campus — both inside and outside the classroom — have helped them grow, build confidence, and prepare for successful futures.
2 / 2
Meet international student, Sofia Paredes, and hear about her experience at MSOE coming from the Philippines.
Learn why MSOE is the place for you!
Resources for current international students to excel while at MSOE.
Once a Raider, always a Raider! Learn about alumni programs and how to receive your diploma and transcript.
At MSOE, we are dedicated to promoting an academic environment marked by an unwavering respect for every individual.
Explore MSOE’s many programs.
Explore MSOE's campus before visiting in person! Use our interactive map to visit our buildings, see our athletic fields and check out the Milwaukee neighborhoods that we call home.
International Admissions
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
international@msoe.edu
WeChat
: MSOE-Admissions-Team
Whatsapp
: +1 414 374 6252
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo