Wisconsin State Grants & Scholarships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
Wisconsin State Grants & Scholarships
Wisconsin State Grants & Scholarships
The State of Wisconsin offers a wide variety of financial aid programs to assist Wisconsin residents who are seeking their first bachelor’s degree.  The grant and scholarship programs listed below do not need to be repaid.
Wisconsin Grant – Private, Non-Profit
The Wisconsin Grant is a need-based grant that provides grant assistance to undergraduate, Wisconsin residents enrolled at least half- time in a private, non-profit institution within the State of Wisconsin. Grants are based on financial need and partially based on that portion of tuition in excess of UW-Madison tuition. The maximum grant amount is established annually by the Higher Educational Aids Board of Wisconsin (HEAB). Eligibility cannot exceed 10 semesters. Students must complete the FAFSA to be considered for this grant.
Please note that due to limited funding, the 2026-2027 FAFSA deadline for determining Wisconsin Grant eligibility is February 1st, 2026. FAFSAs filed after that date may not be eligible for Wisconsin Grant funding.
Wisconsin Academic Excellence Scholarship
The Academic Excellence Scholarship is awarded to Wisconsin high school seniors who have the highest-grade point average in each public and private high school throughout the State of Wisconsin. Officials of the high school facilitate the awarding of the scholarship. The value of the scholarship is $2,250 per year, to be applied towards tuition. Half of the scholarship is funded by the state, while the other half is matched by MSOE. Eligibility must not exceed 8 terms.
Talent Incentive Program Grant (TIP)
The TIP Grant provides grant assistance to the most financially needy and educationally disadvantage Wisconsin resident students attending colleges and universities in the State of Wisconsin. First-time freshmen students are nominated for the TIP Grant by MSOE’s Financial Aid Office or by counselors of the Wisconsin Educational Opportunity Grant (WEOP). To continue to receive the TIP Grant, students must continue to show financial need. Eligibility cannot exceed 10 terms.
Hearing & Visually Handicapped Student Grant
The Handicapped Student Grant Program was established to provide funding for undergraduate Wisconsin residents, enrolled at in-state or eligible out-of-state public or independent institutions who show financial need and have a severe or profound hearing or visual impairment. Students are eligible to receive up to $1,800 per year for up to 10 terms. To apply, students must complete a
FAFSA
as well as the
Hearing & Visually Handicapped Student Grant Application
.
Wisconsin Nursing Loan
The Nursing Student Loan Program provides loans to Wisconsin resident undergraduates or graduate students who are enrolled at least half-time at an eligible in-state institution that prepares them to be licensed as nurses, either RN or LPN. For each of the first two years the student works as a nurse or nurse educator in Wisconsin and meets the eligibility criteria, 25% of the loan is forgiven. The balance remaining after forgiveness must be repaid at an interest rate of 5%. If the student does not work as a nurse or nurse educator and meet the eligibility criteria, the loan must be repaid at an interest rate of 5%. In order to receive a loan, students must be Wisconsin residents and enrolled at least half-time in a program that prepares them to be licensed as nurses (either RN or LPN) at an eligible Wisconsin college or university. Both undergraduates and graduates are eligible. The student who participates in this program must agree to be employed as a licensed nurse in Wisconsin. MSOE receives a limited allocation of funds for the Nursing Student Loan program, not all students who meet basic eligibility requirements for the loan will be able to receive loan funds. For additional information regarding eligibility requirements, criteria for selection, amounts awarded, and application procedures, please visit the following
Wisconsin Higher Educational Aids Board website
. Students wishing to be considered for this program can join the wait list by contacting the Financial Aid Office.
Division of Vocational Rehabilitation Training Grant
Students who believe they may be eligible to receive a Department of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR) Training Grant must first file the FAFSA, then contact their nearest DVR office. Students will work with a DVR counselor to complete a DVR Training Grant Information Form. DVR will forward this form to MSOE’s Office of Student Financial Aid for completion. The maximum DVR Grant that can be received is determined by the DVR office. Grade reports must be provided to the DVR counselor each term. Visit the
Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development website
for details.
To learn more about financial aid programs, please visit the
State of Wisconsin Higher Educational Aids Board website
.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo