ROAR Family and Guest Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
ROAR
ROAR Family and Guest Information
ROAR Family and Guest Information
Supporting your student’s transition to MSOE
Starting college is a big step — not just for students, but also for the family and friends who support them.
ROAR Family & Guest Orientation
is designed to help you connect with the MSOE community, understand what your student will experience, and learn how to support them as they begin their Raider journey.
What families & guests will experience:
Participate in a family & guest-only program and connect with other MSOE families.
Attend Raising a Raider, a session focused on supporting student independence, growth, and how you can best be a part of their college experience and success.
Learn about your student's academic experience, tuition and billing, financial aid, and campus support services.
Explore the Milwaukee area and campus neighborhood
during lunch, on your own, giving you a "choose your own adventure" opportunity to enjoy the city (guidance and information provided at ROAR).
Ask questions and help your student take care of next steps so they feel confident and ready to begin their MSOE journey.
Registering for ROAR
Students will include their family and guest information in their ROAR registration form. If updates are needed, students should contact
roar@msoe.edu
.
Travel & Hotel Accommodations Nearby
Planning your trip to MSOE? Here's some helpful information to make our visit smooth and stress-fee:
Event Details
Location
: Kern Center, 1245 N Broadway, Milwaukee, WI 53202
Time
: 8:30 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Parking
: Parking will be available at 501. E State St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 (State Street A Parking Lot). Check the
campus map
for exact locations.
Please note, we cannot reimburse parking in other lots.
Travel Information
Milwaukee Mitchell International Airport (MKE): Approximately 15-20 minutes by car/rideshare.
Train: Amtrak services are available to Milwaukee's downtown station, about 10-15 minutes from campus by car or rideshare.
Hotels Nearby
There are several hotels within a short drive or walking distance of campus, ranging from budget-friendly to upscale options.
For convenience, consider hotels near downtown Milwaukee or the Deer District area.
Early booking is recommended, especially during peak Orientation dates. Summer in downtown Milwaukee is busy!
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo