International Payments | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Tuition & Fees
Making a Payment
International Payments
International Payments
We have partnered with Transact Campus to offer international students a secure and seamless way to pay for tuition and fees in your currency of choice.
Benefits
Quickly and conveniently make an international payment from over 160 countries, using more than 130 currencies- including Alipay, WeChat and other popular alternative payment methods.
Receive preferential foreign exchange rates with zero international wire fees or bank transfer fees
Rate details are presented directly in your account based on the country selected
Real-time account updates and fund tracking status notifications
Multilingual, dedicated payment and account support 24/7 via phone, chat, email and web.
HOW TO MAKE A PAYMENT - Transact
Log into your my.msoe.edu portal
Once logged in, select the
Students
tab at the top of the page
Click
Student Account Info
Select
Go to Transact
Choose
Make a Payment
from the left panel in Transact
Choose amount to pay and checkout
Select
International payment
as the payment method
Select where you're paying from
Obtain payment instructions and follow them in a timely manner.
If you have questions about statements or charges, reach out to the MSOE Student Accounts office. In the event that you have a payment in progress and have questions or need help with a payment initiated by foreign currency, please contact the Transact customer support team at 888-381-8054 or use the chat feature in your Transact portal.
MSOE has also partnered with Flywire as an additional option for international students to pay with a secure method.
HOW TO MAKE A PAYMENT - Flywire
Use the blue button above to be directed to Flywire
Select the country from which funds will be coming and manually enter the payment amount in U.S. dollars you wish to make to your student account. Please be sure to verify the amount is accurate as posted on your Transact portal.
In most cases, the U.S. dollar amount will be converted into your home currency at preferential exchange rates, which will translate into savings for you.
After providing some additional basic information, you will book the transaction and will be instructed via e-mail on how to pay Flywire from your home country bank account.
Flywire will then forward the U.S. dollar amount to MSOE where it will be directly credited to your student billing account.
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo