Admissions & Aid | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Admissions & Aid
Now calling smart, creative, ambitious students.
Since 1903, MSOE has been dedicated to educating the brightest and most innovative students — the ones who aren’t satisfied with the status quo, who are determined to create new solutions to our world’s most challenging problems. Sound like you? Then we’d love to meet you.
1 / 3
One of the most important investments you'll make is your education. An education from MSOE means direct entry into programs (you'll take classes towards your major on day one!), a four year graduation guarantee, and so much more. Now more than ever, MSOE is a S.M.A.R.T. decision.
2 / 3
Our students let us in on their favorite places to visit around campus. There's a lot to see and do within a few blocks of MSOE!
3 / 3
Joe Schwall graduated from MSOE in May 2017. Meet Joe and learn more about his journey, how scholarships made it possible for him to attend MSOE, and his career goals.
Join us for a
campus tour
to experience the MSOE difference. If you’re ready to apply,
get started today
. It’s free and takes just 10 minutes, no essay required.
Wondering how to pay for college? We’ll walk you through it. With our generous
financial aid and scholarship
options, an MSOE degree is more affordable than you might think, and it’s an investment that will pay off for a lifetime.
Explore MSOE's campus before visiting in person! Use our interactive map to visit our buildings, see our athletic fields and check out the Milwaukee neighborhoods that we call home.
View your Admissions Portal
Check your application status, register for events, discover student success resources, and more.
Take me to my page
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo