ROTC Programs & Scholarships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
ROTC  Programs & Scholarships
ROTC Programs & Scholarships
ROTC is an elective curriculum you take along with your required college classes. It prepares you with the tools, training and experiences that will help you succeed in any competitive environment. Along with great leadership training, ROTC programs and scholarships can pay for your college tuition, too.
MSOE ROTC students learn leadership skills in college in order to have a successful military or civilian career. Each branch of the armed services offers an ROTC program, which is located on the Marquette University campus. These ROTC programs have partnered with MSOE to offer 3 or 4 year scholarships. ROTC Scholarship amounts offered range from $18,000 up to full tuition and fees. MSOE offers additional scholarship opportunities to this already robust scholarship. Please contact
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office
to learn more.
Scholarship opportunities are available through all of the ROTC programs in a variety of academic majors. To learn more about each branch of service's program and scholarships available to MSOE students, please visit the following pages:
Air Force ROTC is one sure way to make sure you get the most out of your college experience. You’ll learn useful life and leadership skills, and you’ll be a part of a group of people who help and challenge you to accomplish your personal best in physical fitness and academics.
Army ROTC is an elective curriculum you take along with your required college classes. It prepares you with the tools, training and experiences that will help you succeed in any competitive environment.
The Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps is a four-year training program intended to develop you in mind, body, and character such that you can be entrusted with Americas treasure – the young men and women who comprise the all-volunteer military in service to our great nation.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo