Transfer Student Scholarships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
MSOE Scholarships & Grants
Transfer Student Scholarships
Transfer Student Scholarships
Scholarship opportunities for transfer students at MSOE.
Transfer Student Academic Scholarships
Transfer students at MSOE also qualify for tuition-based scholarships. Academic scholarships are renewable for returning students on a yearly basis up to a maximum of six years (18 full-time terms) so long as they continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
MSOE Grant
Incoming undergraduate students may be eligible for an MSOE Grant. Students are required to complete the FAFSA annually to apply for the MSOE Grant. The MSOE Grant amount varies based on financial need, which is determined by the FAFSA, and therefore, is subject to change from year to year. Students must file the FAFSA each year and maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) to receive all the aid for which they are eligible.
To maintain eligibility, students must be enrolled full-time and meet the
SAP Policy.
Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Scholarship
Incoming transfer or international students who are current or past members of Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) are eligible to receive a tuition- based scholarship, renewable for up to six years (12 full-time terms).
Legacy Scholarship
This tuition-based scholarship is for full-time incoming freshmen and transfer students who have a parent, grandparent, or great-grandparent who graduated from MSOE. Students with multiple alumni family members will only receive one per year. To receive the scholarship, students must indicate that a parent or grandparent is a graduate of MSOE on the admission application. MSOE’s Financial Aid Office may contact students to confirm the name of the parent/grandparent prior to awarding the scholarship. This award is is renewable up to six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy
.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo