Partnership with Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
Future International Students
Partnership with Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM)
Partnership with Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM)
MSOE and
Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM)
have developed a 3+1+1 program that gives Computer Science and Engineering students at HITAM the opportunity to study in the United States, take courses in MSOE’s AI-focused computer science program, and earn a Master of Science in Engineering Management from MSOE.
Program Overview
Students will enroll in the B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering program at HITAM. They will spend the first three years of their undergraduate education at HITAM. In their fourth year, HITAM students will be enrolled at MSOE and will take computer science courses that are offered through the Diercks School of Advanced Computing in order to complete their degree requirements for their B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering degree from HITAM. In their fourth year, students will begin to take courses toward MSOE’s Master of Science in Engineering Management through the Rader School of Business. Students will then enter the Master of Science in Engineering Management graduate program at MSOE with an estimated time to completion of one year.
Accreditation
MSOE’s computer science program is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of
ABET
, under the commission's General Criteria and Program Criteria for Computer Science. The Rader School of Business has been granted accreditation by the
Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs
(ACBSP) for all graduate and undergraduate business programs. Less than 10% of the world’s business schools hold accreditation.
Academic Requirements
Successful completion of the first three years of the B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering curriculum at HITAM.
Get details about international admissions at MSOE.
Get details on tuition and fees at MSOE.
Samantha Kammers
Director of Admissions - Transfer & International
(414) 227-7431
kammers@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo