Summer Financial Aid | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid Basics
Summer Financial Aid
Summer Financial Aid
This page offers some guidelines on obtaining financial aid during summer terms.
For most programs, the summer term for financial aid purposes is a trailer to your academic year’s award cycle*. This means that students applying for summer 2026 financial aid must have a 2025-2026 FAFSA on file. Summer financial aid is based upon the remaining eligibility for various programs like Pell Grant and Federal Loans.
All students must maintain
Satisfactory Academic Progress
to receive Financial Aid.
MSOE Scholarships:
Full-time enrollment must be maintained in order to remain eligible to receive MSOE scholarships, including the MSOE Academic Scholarship. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12+ credits per term.
New for the 2025-2026 School Year:
Students may request a prorated amount of their MSOE scholarship for part-time enrollment in any term, including summer. Requests should be emailed to finaid@msoe.edu.
Students who enroll
full-time
in the summer semester are eligible to receive the full amount of their MSOE Scholarships and Grants (if applicable), as long as other eligibility criteria are met.
Students are limited to a total of 4 semesters of scholarship proration for part-time enrollment while at MSOE.
Electing to use your MSOE Scholarship(s) during the summer term counts towards a student’s overall 12 semester limit.
MSOE Grants:
Students must be enrolled full-time to be eligible to receive MSOE grants. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12+ credits per term. MSOE Grants are not available for part-time enrollment.
Wisconsin State Aid:
Students are not eligible for Wisconsin State Aid during the summer
Veteran’s Benefits and ROTC Scholarship:
Students must contact our
VA Certifying Official
to determine eligibility for these programs over the summer
Federal Direct Loans:
Student loan eligibility is available only for undergraduate students enrolled in at least six credits contributing toward their degree program. Graduate students must be enrolled in at least three credits contributing toward their degree program. A student will have their remaining loan eligibility offered to them, if they have not used their
Federal Direct Loans
already for the academic year. Please review our
Federal Direct Loan
page for additional criteria
Parent Plus and Graduate Plus Loans:
Students may be eligible for
Parent PLUS
and
Graduate PLUS Loans
, if they meet the criteria outlined for each loan program.
Alternative/Private Education Loans:
Students of any credit load may explore private loan options. Certain options may not be available to students who are less six credits. Please use the advanced filters to search for the appropriate options at our
Private Loan Page
Federal Pell Grant:
Students who are eligible for a Federal Pell Grant during the academic year may be eligible to receive a Pell Grant for summer enrollment. Please note that receiving a Pell Grant during the summer term does count toward a student’s 600% lifetime eligibility.
*Accelerated Nursing Students:
Please contact our office to determine which FAFSA you must file for summer Financial Aid, as there may be exceptions based on the cohort you enrolled in.
Summer Cost of Attendance
: There is a maximum amount of financial aid that a student can take out for summer, based on the number of weeks and credits a student is enrolled for. This Cost of Attendance, or “Budget” will be made available on the Student’s My Financial Aid Profile available on their
myMSOE Portal
.
Summer Charges
: Students that are less than full time will be charged a per-credit-hour rate based on the current academic year tuition charges. Students that are full time will be charged the full-time tuition rate. Please visit our
Tuition and Fees
page for the breakdown of charges that may be incurred.
Summer Financial Aid Offer:
Students should expect to see their summer financial aid made available the first week of classes. If a student is eligible for summer financial aid, they will receive an aid offer emailed to their MSOE Email, with their aid offer for summer. Students must actively accept this aid offer on their financial aid portal.
Students who are not eligible for their scholarship, grant, or loan aid will not receive a notification. If they wish to utilize the PLUS or Private Loan options, they may still do so. Please note that you must continue to meet the criteria for each loan program to apply and receive loan aid.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo