International Undergraduate Students | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
Future International Students
International Undergraduate Students
International Undergraduate Students
MSOE is here to help international students navigate their way to MSOE. Learn about scholarship opportunities and conditional/dual admission.
MSOE’s undergraduate degree programs are designed to provide a rigorous academic experience that will thoroughly prepare you for success in your career and beyond. Learn more about the scholarships available to international students, English proficiency requirements needed for admission, MSOE’s undergraduate degree programs, and academic support services.
Scholarships
MSOE is committed to offering financial assistance designed to meet the financial needs of all undergraduate students. MSOE does offer international students scholarships for those studying at the undergraduate level. These scholarships are based on academic merit and take into account high school GPA/leaving exam scores. Scholarships range up to approximately half of tuition for the highest performing students.
Learn more about MSOE scholarships and grants.
In addition to scholarships, there are some on campus jobs available, but these are not guaranteed in advance. International students may work on campus, but they need to keep in mind the rigorous nature of the academic programs and the significant time and effort that will be required to keep up on their studies.
Learn more about student employment opportunities.
STEM Designated Programs
Please see below for a list of STEM designated programs offered at Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Computer Science
Architectural Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical and BioMolecular Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Software Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Industrial Engineering
User Experience
Operation and Systems Management
Actuarial Science
Ready to apply? Follow these steps to complete the application and admission process.
Find out what it takes to get admitted to MSOE's undergraduate degree programs.
MSOE welcomes transfer students! At MSOE, we define a transfer student as someone who has either been out of high school for more than two years or who has attended another college or university.
Explore the programs that MSOE has to offer.
MSOE offers resources for international students to help with both academic and cultural challenges that students may face.  This includes continued opportunities for international students to refine their English skills, to get tutoring for specific subjects, and more.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
International Admissions
1025 N Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
international@msoe.edu
WeChat: MSOEKayla
Whatsapp: +1 414 573 9883
Request Information
Register for events, check your application status or request more information!
Let's get started
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo