Why Choose MSOE? | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Why Choose MSOE?
Why Choose MSOE?
This is not your average university. It’s where the enduring desire to learn more sits in our DNA. Where students and professors work together to create impact far beyond the city of Milwaukee and the shores of Lake Michigan. And, where students become ready to solve complex problems through their passion, tenacity and resilience.
1 / 2
The courage to be curious can change everything. At MSOE, your passion for exploring, building and wondering, "What if?", is celebrated. It's a place to rethink what's possible.
2 / 2
At MSOE, students learn on the leading edge of technology. Hands-on learning experiences, next generation technologies and top programs position MSOE at the forefront of artificial intelligence education. Students work on real-world projects that make a real impact. In fact, all projects seen in this video are real student projects.
Few universities can beat our average career outcomes rate of 96% — not to mention the highest average early and mid-career salaries of any college or university in Wisconsin according to PayScale (2024) and the 17th highest starting salary in the nation according to the Wall Street Journal (2026)
Don’t expect giant lecture halls or teaching assistants (we don’t have either). Instead, experienced professors — with an average of seven years of industry experience — teach every class and lab. With an average class of just 19 students and lab size of 11 students, you’ll get plenty of personal attention.
Cost is only part of the equation in the college search. Not only does MSOE provide numerous scholarship and financial aid options for students, but our programs also boast some of the highest starting salaries in the nation.
Most universities talk about hands-on work, but few can match the hundreds of hours of laboratory experience you’ll get as a student at MSOE. In fact, you'll spend more time in labs on our campus than you will in classrooms — and all of our labs are available to undergraduates.
When you apply to a college or university for admission, you want to make sure you get into your preferred program. Unlike some universities that make you wait until sophomore year to apply to the school or department of your choice, we offer direct admission so you can start your major right away.
MSOE’s undergraduate engineering programs have been ranked 9th in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. MSOE is also highly ranked by Forbes, Business Insider, Princeton Review, PayScale Inc. and others.
MSOE is one of only a handful of universities in the United States that guarantees you will graduate in four years if you start and follow their four-year plan, which will save you time and money.
Newcomers are often surprised by all that Milwaukee offers. Located in one of Milwaukee’s most exciting and safest neighborhoods, MSOE is within walking distance from downtown internship sites, restaurants, coffee shops, stores, sporting and concert arenas, festivals and beautiful Lake Michigan. Plus, we’re just a 90-minute train ride away from Chicago.
Our smaller size — just under 3,000 students — will help you feel at home. And with 100+ student organizations, clubs, and intercollegiate sports, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to connect with like-minded new friends.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Request Information
Register for events, check your application status or request more information!
Let's get started
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo