Financial Aid Estimator | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid Basics
Financial Aid Estimator
Early Financial Aid Estimator (Net Price Calculator)
The Early Financial Aid Estimator (Net Price Calculator) is intended for entering freshman undergraduate students or undergraduate transfer students. It’s an important first step in understanding the cost of your education.
By entering some information regarding your background, plans, and finances, the calculator will help provide an early estimate of your financial aid. If you complete the estimator in its entirety, you will see your estimated “net cost” (estimated tuition and fees minus estimated financial aid). This online, third-party resource is provided at no cost to prospective students and their families.
The Financial Aid Estimator is based on academic and income information that you input and will provide an estimate of your financial aid eligibility and costs. We encourage you to complete the entire process to ensure the best possible estimate. Actual amounts may vary based on additional information or changes to your financial situation.
Please remember that figures provided are estimates only. Your official financial aid offer will be made after we receive your FAFSA. The MSOE Financial Aid Office anticipates mailing out new student financial aid offers in January.
This estimator based on academic and income information that you provide, will give you estimated costs and financial aid to determine out-of-pocket costs. We encourage you to complete the entire process to ensure the best possible estimate.  Please remember that figures provided are estimates only. The official aid offer will be mailed after completion of the FAFSA application for the upcoming academic year.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo