Future International Students | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
Future International Students
Future International Students
Join our community of learners in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, Wisconsin!
MSOE, located roughly 90 miles north of Chicago, offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate programs that will equip you with the skillsets and knowledge you need to succeed and achieve your career goals after graduation. Learn why MSOE is the place for you and everything you need to know to apply.
Create a profile on Interstride to learn more about MSOE’s admissions process, webinars, international student services and more!
Find out more about our undergraduate programs and helpful resources.
Find out more about our graduate programs and helpful resources.
MSOE accepts credits from academic institutions from around the globe.
MSOE and Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM) have developed a 3+1+1 program.
At MSOE, we are dedicated to promoting an academic environment marked by an unwavering respect for every individual.
Gain real world experience in small classes taught by industry professionals in a thriving city. Learn why MSOE is the place for you.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
International Admissions
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
international@msoe.edu
WeChat
: MSOE-Admissions-Team
Whatsapp
: +1 414 374 6252
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo