Articulation Agreements | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Transfer Admissions
Articulation Agreements
Articulation Agreements
If you are attending a community or technical college, you can take advantage of articulation agreements that efficiently transfer credits toward an MSOE degree.
Guaranteed Admissions Agreements
MSOE’s Guaranteed Admission Agreements provide a clear transfer pathway for students earning an
Associate of Science (AS)
or
Associate in Engineering Science (AES)
from participating partner institutions. These agreements ensure a seamless transition into select bachelor’s degree programs at MSOE.
See participating schools
to find out if your college is included and to view the specific agreements. Ready to take the next step?
Take the next step to MSOE and fill out the inquiry form!
Associate of Applied Science in Electrical Engineering Technology to B.S. Electrical Engineering Transfer Track
Students earning an Associate of Applied Science (AAS) in Electrical Engineering Technology at a participating institution can transfer into MSOE’s BS in Electrical Engineering program through a streamlined pathway designed for technical learners.
See participating schools
to view the institutions offering this pathway and read the agreement details. Want to learn more?
Take the next step to MSOE and fill out the inquiry form!
B.S. in Technical and Business Management (AAS to B.S. Transfer Program)
Students with a technical
Associate of Applied Science (AAS)
degree from a
Wisconsin Technical College System (WTCS)
institution can transfer into MSOE’s
B.S. in Technical and Business Management
program with junior standing.
Typical transfers include 45 credits of technical electives and 15 general education credits.
Please contact
Dr. Michael Payne
for a detailed curriculum path based on your specific technical program.
SC Johnson STEM Scholars Pathway
In partnership with Gateway Technical College and supported by SC Johnson, this pathway allows eligible Racine-area high school seniors to start their degree at Gateway and transfer to MSOE to complete a bachelor’s in
Electrical Engineering
or
Operations and Systems Management
.
Students receive a $7,500 annual scholarship at both Gateway and MSOE—
with MSOE matching the award
.
View eligibility and participating Gateway programs
Don't see your path? Explore our transfer guides
here
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo