Loan Repayment Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Loans
Loan Repayment Information
Loan Repayment Information
MSOE's Financial Aid Office offers resources to help you manage your student loans and can help you navigate the loan repayment process.
National Student Loan Data System
The National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) is the U.S. Department of Education’s (ED’s) central database for student aid. NSLDS receives data from schools, guaranty agencies, the Direct Loan program, the Pell Grant program, and other Department of ED programs. MSOE is required to inform student and parent borrowers that the loan will be submitted to NSLDS and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system.
Students may view how much they have taken out in Federal Direct Loans, as well as determine who their Federal Loan Servicer is, by visiting the
Federal Student Aid website
and signing on with their FSA ID. The student's loan information pulls in from NSLDS and should be available to view at any point.
Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling
All borrowers graduating or withdrawing from MSOE who received a Federal Direct Loan from MSOE are required to complete the
Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling
. Exit counseling helps students understand their rights and responsibilities as a student loan borrower as well as provide useful tips and information to help them manage their loans.
Complete Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling here
.
Students have a six month grace period, after dropping below half-time enrollment, before beginning to make payments on their Federal Direct Loans.
Finding the Federal Loan Servicer
Student and parent loan borrowers may view how much they have taken out in Federal Direct Loans, as well as determine who their Federal Loan Servicer is, by visiting the
Federal Student Aid website
and signing on with their FSA ID. The borrower's loan information pulls in from NSLDS and should be available to view at any point. Please
consult
MSOE’s
Financial
Aid
Office
or
the
specific
holder(s)
of
the
debts
for
further
information.
Repayment Calculator
This
student loan payment calculator
computes an estimate of the size of monthly loan payments. This loan calculator can be used with Federal education loans (Subsidized/Unsubsidized, Perkins and PLUS) and most private student loans.
Federal Loan Repayment Options
There are several repayment options available that are designed to meet the individual needs of borrowers. Your loan servicer can help the borrower understand which repayment options are available. Generally, borrowers have 10 to 25 years to repay the loan, depending on the repayment plan. Learn more about
repayment options
.
Perkins Loan Exit Counseling
Perkins loan exit counseling is required for all students who leave MSOE and have borrowed Perkins loans.  MSOE is partnered with University Accounting Service (UAS).  Students can complete exit counseling online at UAS to fulfill their exit counseling requirements, learn more about loan repayment, and familiarize themselves with UAS.  Please complete exit counseling at the
UAS website
.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo