Graduate Student Financial Aid | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid Basics
Graduate Student Financial Aid
Graduate Student Financial Aid
Contents
Available Financial Aid Programs
Federal Direct Loans
Graduate Plus Loans
Alternative Loans
Maintaining Financial Aid Eligibility
Tuition Cost
Dropping or Withdrawal
MBA Education Leadership
Early Entry Master's Degree Programs
Frequently Asked Questions
Available Financial Aid Programs
Federal Direct Loans for Graduate Students:
To apply, you must fill out a FAFSA at
fafsa.gov
using your FSA ID. Borrowers must also complete Entrance Counseling and a Master Promissory note (MPN), available at
studentaid.gov
under the heading “Complete Aid Process”.
Annual Limit:
$20,500 divided evenly between terms
Aggregate limit:
The chart below outlines the aggregate loan limits for federal direct loans.
Graduate Students Who
HAVE NOT
Borrowed Loans Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Graduate Degree Program
$100,000
The graduate aggregate limit does not include any federal loans received for undergraduate study.
Graduate Students Who
HAVE
Borrowed Loans Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Graduate Degree Program**
**This provision lasts for three years or until a student completes their current graduate program, whichever comes first. Changing programs or beginning a new degree program after July 1st, 2026, disqualifies a student from this provision.
$138,500 – no more than $65,500* of this may be in subsidized loan.
The graduate aggregate limit includes all federal loans received for undergraduate study.
Fixed Interest Rate:
Visit
MSOE Financial Aid webpage
and visit the loans sections for up to date information on interest rates.
Origination Fees:
A small administrative fee is taken off the top of the loan, so the amount on your preliminary billing statement may be different than your Financial Aid Offer. Please visit
MSOE Financial Aid webpage
and visit the loans sections for up to date information on origination fees.
Loan Proration:
Beginning July 1st, 2026, Students who are enrolled less than full time (6 credits) will only be able to borrow a prorated amount of federal student loans for that semester. The loan amount that can be borrowed will be based on their credit load. Please note that students are still required to be enrolled at least half time (3 credits to borrow federal student loans.
Graduate PLUS Loans:
These are additional loans that may allow students to cover the difference between their Financial Aid and Cost of Attendance. To apply, visit
studentaid.gov.
Students must have a valid FAFSA, and otherwise be eligible for federal financial aid. If approved, students must fill out a Master Promissory Note (MPN). More information is available at
MSOE Financial Aid webpage
under the Loans section.
Annual Limit:
students may borrow up to the difference between their current estimated financial assistance and Cost of Attendance.
Fixed Interest Rate:
Visit
MSOE Financial Aid webpage
and visit the loans sections for up to date information on interest rates.
Origination Fees:
A small administrative fee is taken off the top of the loan, so the amount on your preliminary billing statement may be different than your Financial Aid Offer. Please visit
MSOE Financial Aid webpage
and visit the loans sections for up to date information on origination fees.
Effective July 1st, 2026, the Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan will no longer be available to new loan borrowers. Students who have borrowed a federal loan for their current graduate program at MSOE may continue to borrow Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans for up to 3 academic years or until they complete their current graduate program, whichever comes first. Please note that changing programs or starting a new degree program after July 1st, 2026 will impact your ability to borrow Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans.
Alternative/Private Education Loans:
Alternative/private education loans may be available for students.  We do recommend that students maximize and explore their federal options and eligibility first. Students may view our historical lender list and Fast Choice tool at our
Private Higher Education Loan
web page.
Maintaining Financial Aid Eligibility
Please visit the
MSOE SAP Policy webpage
for our full satisfactory academic progress policy.
Tuition Costs
Tuition rates are updated annually on the Student Accounts website. For a complete listing of estimated tuition and fees associated with your program, please visit the
MSOE Graduate Tuition webpage
. Tuition is billed each term at a per credit rate for graduate students, based on the courses registered for the term. Additional charges may include a per credit hour technology fee and any charges related to the particular course.
Please note that your bill is not final until you are registered for the final number of credits in the term.
You may access your bill by visiting your
myMSOE
account, navigating to the Student Tab, and visiting “Transact”
Dropping or Withdrawal
Tuition and Fees Refunds:
Students who drop or withdraw from courses after they begin classes are subject to a tuition refund policy. The full policy, including Meal Plan and Residence Hall Refunds may be found at the
MSOE Tuition & Fee Refund webpage
.
Return of Title IV Financial Aid:
Federal Regulation 34 CFR 668.22 specifies how a school must determine the amount of title IV program assistance you earn if you withdraw from school. For students who withdraw prior to completing more than 60% of their period of enrollment, federal financial aid regulations require you to repay some or all of your financial aid. This may leave you with a significant balance owed to the school. The full policy is available at the
MSOE Return of Financial Aid webpage
. Students considering dropping or withdrawing from courses should reach out to the Financial Aid Office.
MBA Education Leadership
Is there financial aid available for the MBA Education Leadership degree program?
There are limited scholarship opportunities available for students in MBA-EL degree program. Upon acceptance to the program, the program director will provide details on how to apply. Students may also be eligible for federal or private student loans if they are enrolled in a degree-seeking program. To apply for federal loans, student must submit a
FAFSA
.  Please note that students in the certificate program are not eligible for scholarships or federal loans. We have information on
private student loans on our website
. Students will be charged tuition and fees on a per-credit basis. See the
Graduate Tuition at MSOE
webpage for details.
How do the summer licensure programs for the MBAEL program work?
Students enrolling in either of the additional licensure track programs over the summer do not qualify for financial aid for those programs. Students are billed per credit. Please contact the Student Accounts Office or the MBAEL Program for additional information.
Students with more questions or needing more information about their program itself should visit the
MSOE MBA Education Leadership webpage
or
contact the program director, Michele Trawicki
.
M.S. in Machine Learning (MSML) Graduate Degree
Is there financial aid available for the MSML degree program?
(See next section for information on the Early Entry Machine Learning program)
There are limited scholarship opportunities of up to $13,600 available for students in the MSML degree program. Upon acceptance to the program, the program director will provide details on how to apply. Students may also be eligible for federal or private student loans. To apply for federal loans, student must submit a
FAFSA
.  We have information on
private student loans on our website
. Students will be charged tuition and fees on a per-credit basis. See the
Graduate Tuition at MSOE
webpage for details.
Early Entry Master's Degree Programs
The E
arly Entry Master’s Degree Program allows students to save on the cost of a graduate degree by taking graduate classes during their undergraduate degree.  In this program, certain graduate courses will meet both undergraduate and graduate degree requirements, which can provide significant savings. Once students are in the graduate phase of their program (after undergraduate degree is conferred) they will be charged the per credit graduate rate.
FAQs
I already took out loans for another program, will I need to make payments on those while I am in school?
Once you begin courses, we will report your enrollment to the National Clearinghouse, which should any federally held loans into a deferment status, if you are enrolled at least half time. At this point, any subsidized loans will cease accruing interest. For loans that are not federally held, you should reach out to your loan servicer.
I need to add or drop a class, but the term has started. How will that affect my tuition and financial aid?
Please review the tuition and fees refund section previously referenced on this page, or visit the
MSOE Tuition webpage
. Additionally, we recommend that any student looking to drop classes call the Financial Aid Office before doing so.
How can I tell what the total cost of my program will be?
MSOE’s Financial Aid Office can only publish and send financial aid offers for the active academic and aid years available. In most cases, the financial aid offer a student receives will only be for one academic year, or one portion of their program. Students may utilize this and other publicly available information on cost per credit at the
MSOE Tuition webpage
to get a sense of what future years may entail. Please note that financial aid is evaluated yearly based on that year’s FAFSA, and aid may be subject to change year to year.   Students wishing for more information should reach out to the
Student Accounts Office
.
I’m enrolled in a Master’s Certificate Program, or a summer licensure course. Do I qualify for financial aid?
Students who are enrolled only in Master’s Certificate programs may not qualify for financial aid. Please contact the Financial Aid Office for more information.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo