Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loans | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Loans
Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loans
Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loans
The Federal Direct PLUS Loan program (PLUS) makes loans available to parents of dependent students. Loan funds received must be used to assist with paying educational costs such as tuition, laptop fees, books and living expenses.
Loan Limits for the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan
Beginning July 1
st
, 2026, the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan will have annual and aggregate loan limits.
The following chart shows the annual limits for the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan:
Annual Loan Limit
Students Who Have Received a Parent PLUS Loan Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Undergraduate Program*
*This provision lasts for three years or until a student completes their current undergraduate program, whichever comes first. Changing programs or beginning a new degree program after July 1st, 2026, disqualifies a student from this provision.
Up to the Cost of Attendance Minus Any Other Financial Aid Received
Students Who
HAVE NOT
Received a Parent PLUS Loan Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Undergraduate Program
$20,000 per dependent student
The following chart shows the aggregate limits for the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan:
Aggregate Loan Limit
Students Who Have Received a Parent PLUS Loan Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Undergraduate Program*
*This provision lasts for three years or until a student completes their current undergraduate program, whichever comes first. Changing programs or beginning a new degree program after July 1st, 2026, disqualifies a student from this provision.
No Aggregate Loan Limit
Students Who
HAVE NOT
Received a Parent PLUS Loan Prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for Their Current Undergraduate Program
$65,000 per dependent student
If you are unsure if you have received a Parent PLUS Loan prior to July 1
st
, 2026 for your current undergraduate degree, please reach out to the MSOE Financial Aid Office at
finaid@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7223.
MSOE highly recommends that new Parent PLUS Loan borrowers borrow $16,250 or less per year in Parent PLUS Loan to ensure that your student is eligible for the Parent PLUS Loan all four years.
Eligibility Requirements for the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan
The borrower must be the parent or step-parent of a dependent student.
The borrower must be in good credit standing.
The student must be enrolled at least 1/2 time.
The borrower must not be in default on another loan.
The borrower and the student must be U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens.
The student must maintain
Satisfactory Academic Progress.
What is the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan?
Parents of dependent students looking to apply for the Parent Plus Loan for the 2026-2027 school year should apply after April 1st, 2026. We recommend applying for the Parent PLUS Loan by August 31st, 2026 to ensure that the Parent PLUS Loan is added prior to the beginning of the Fall semester.
The Federal Direct PLUS Loan is a federally insured fixed rate loan for parents who have been approved after a credit check is preformed regardless of income or assets. The interest rates on new loans are fixed for the life of the loan; however, every July 1, each year’s new loans will have different fixed rates based on the current market rates. In addition to interest, the borrower will also pay a loan origination fee of the principal amount of each PLUS Loan.
Loan Type
Borrower Type
Fixed Interest Rate (For Loans disbursed between 7/1/2025 - 06/30/2026
Fixed Interest Rate (For Loans disbursed between 7/1/2024- 6/30/2025
Origination Fee (For Loans originated between 10/1/2020 - 9/30/2026)
Direct Parent Plus Loan
Parents of Dependent Undergraduate Students
8.94%
9.08%
4.228%
Parents may borrow up to the cost of education minus any other financial aid the student has already received. PLUS Loans are scheduled to go into repayment 60 days after the loan’s final disbursement, but the parent borrower can contact the loan servicer to request deferment of payments until six months after the student ceases at least half-time enrollment. Interest will accrue during the time the student is in school; however, payments to interest and/or principal can be paid during that time without penalty.
The Federal Direct Parent PLUS loan is legally in the parent’s name and can never be transferred to their student.
To Apply for Direct Parent PLUS Loan
The parent will complete the PLUS Loan application and sign the PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note. These steps are both completed on the
Student Aid website
. The parent will sign in with their own
Federal Student Aid ID (FSA ID)
to complete these steps.
The student must complete the FAFSA application online on the
Student Aid Website.
The parent must complete the
Parent PLUS Loan Application
, and Master Promissory Note (MPN) online at
studentaid.gov
. Parents will need their
Federal Student Aid ID (FSA ID)
to log in.
The links to the PLUS Loan Application can be located under the
"Loans and Grants" Tab.
The links to the Plus Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) can be located under the
"Loans and Grants" Tab.
Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan Denial
If a parent is denied the loan, they can still receive a Parent PLUS Loan through one of these two options:
Obtaining an endorser who does not have an adverse credit history. An endorser is someone who agrees to repay the Parent PLUS Loan if the borrower does not repay it. The endorser cannot be the child on whose behalf the parent is borrowing. The endorser will have to complete an Endorser Addendum using an Endorser Code and their own FSA ID and password.
Documenting to the satisfaction of the U.S. Department of Education that there are extenuating circumstances relating to adverse credit history. There is a non-exhaustive list of examples of extenuating circumstances under the
"Documenting Extenuating Circumstances (Appeal)"
section of the Federal Student Aid website. This list also provides information on what documents are needed for each example.
If a parent wishes to utilize one of the two options listed above, they must also complete PLUS credit counseling. This counseling can be done on the
Student Aid website
using the parent’s FSA ID and password.
If a parent does not wish to utilize one of the two options listed above, students may receive an additional Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan ($4,000 for freshmen and sophomores; $5,000 for juniors and seniors). To obtain this additional funding, the parent must send us an e-mail stating that they wish to accept the credit decision on the Parent PLUS loan application.
If the student does not want the additional amount, the student can contact the MSOE Financial Aid Office via email at
finaid@msoe.edu
to decline the loan.
Federal Loan Processing Overview
The U.S. Department of Education will notify MSOE electronically after the borrower has completed the PLUS Loan Application and the MPN.
The borrower will receive a disclosure statement from the U.S. Department of Education providing specific information about their loan, including loan amount, fees and the expected disbursement dates.
The loan must be accepted and both the PLUS application and MPN completed to ensure that the loan disbursement will be credited to the student’s bill each term. Federal loans will have an origination fee which will be subtracted from the amount requested so the amount reflected on bill will be less than the requested amount.
The loan disbursement will be posted to the student account during the second week of each term. Once posted to the student account, students and parents will be notified via MSOE email when the PLUS Loan funds have been disbursed.
Loan applications cannot be processed after the academic year ends or if the student ceases to be enrolled at least half-time.
Students may also be required to submit their final high school transcripts to MSOE's admissions office before federal aid can be disbursed to their account.
The National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) is the U.S. Department of Education's (ED's) central database for student aid. NSLDS receives data from schools, guaranty agencies, the Direct Loan program, the Pell Grant program, and other Department of ED programs. There is a detailed history of federal student loans on this site. MSOE is required to inform student/parent borrowers that the loan will be submitted to NSLDS and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system.
For a full review of the terms and disclosures regarding Federal Direct PLUS Loans, please read the linked
Plain Language Disclosure.
Another financing option for MSOE families is an alternative loan. This loan is available to MSOE students but may require a co-signer. To view more information regarding this financing option and to apply, please click on the link below.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo