Loans | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Loans
Loans
Loans are a type of financial aid that must be repaid. Loan funds are intended to assist a student in educational expenses which include tuition, fees, books and other living expenses. Students and families should consider their future loan debt and ability to repay before committing to borrow.
Although MSOE scholarships and grants make up a large portion of many financial aid awards, student and parent loans can also help you meet your educational costs. MSOE’s Financial Aid Office provides various tools below to help you make an informed decision when financing your MSOE education.
The National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) is the U.S. Department of Education's (ED's) central database for student aid. NSLDS receives data from schools, guaranty agencies, the Direct Loan program, the Pell Grant program, and other Department of ED programs. You can find a detailed history of your federal student loans by logging on to the
Federal Student Aid website
, and logging on to view your NSLDS information.
MSOE is required to inform student/parent borrowers that their loan information will be submitted to NSLDS and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system.
Comprehensive information about the Federal Direct Loan and PLUS Programs can be found on the
Federal Student Aid website
as well.
Federal Direct Student Loans
Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loans
Private/Alternative Loans for Students and Parents
Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans
Loan Repayment Information
Financial Wellness
MSOE Expense Planner
Financial Aid Application Process (FAFSA)
MSOE students will need their MSOE email to log into their my Financial Aid account to check the status of their financial aid award. Incoming students will receive their MSOE email account once they are registered for classes.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo