Student Account Forms | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Tuition & Fees
Student Accounts
Student Account Forms
Student Accounts Forms
Required
Student Financial Responsibility Agreement
-
Each academic year, every student must complete the Student Financial Agreement in which they agree to pay for cost of services received through MSOE. The agreements outlines the student's obligation to pay, a financial aid disclaimer, and consequences of non-payment. This agreement exists as a pop-up notification in Transact and will prompt each student to agree to terms upon first log in attempt each year. If the form is not completed, a hold will be placed on the student account prevent future registration.
View a copy of the 25-26 Agreement here:
Student Financial Agreement 2025-26
Direct Deposit Form
- Excess funds will be processed within 14 days after the disbursement is posted to your student account. To have faster access to your funds, enroll in direct deposit as it’s simple, safe, and convenient. Students can sign up for direct deposit eRefund through their Transact online student portal. If you do not enroll in direct deposit, a check will be mailed to your current address on file.
Recommended
These forms can be found on a student's myMSOE portal under Student Account Forms.
Credit Balance Authorization Form
- Federal regulations require MSOE to only apply financial aid funds including federal Title IV funds to certain allowable charges. To prevent any outstanding balance because of non-allowable charges, you can complete the Credit Balance Authorization, which will allow MSOE to apply the amount of financial aid funds that exceed allowable charges to cover non-mandatory charges (such as parking, bookstore charges, etc.) to your student account.
Student Financial Release Form
- The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974 is a federal law designed to protect the privacy of a student’s education records. Educational records include student account and financial aid records which are considered confidential and will not be released without written consent from the student. In accordance with FERPA, it is necessary for Student Financial Services to obtain written consent from students in order to release any financial aid or student account information to family members, employers, or another third party.
Other Forms
Tuition Appeal
- A tuition appeal provides the option for a student with extenuating circumstances to request an exception to MSOE's Student Financial Agreement. Please review the policy for further details and qualifications prior to submitting a Tuition Appeal. This form can be found on a student's myMSOE portal under Student Account Forms.
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo