Admitted Student Checklist | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Undergraduate Admissions
Admitted Student Checklist
Admitted Student Checklist
Lee esta página en español
We are so excited you are considering MSOE for your college career. Now that you have been admitted, here are a few important steps to take to be sure your journey to MSOE is as smooth as possible:
Visit MSOE
Join us for an
Open House or Admitted Student Day
File your FAFSA
Apply for financial aid by submitting the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
. Doing this will help maximize your college savings.
Ask your counselor questions
Your
MSOE admissions counselor
is here to help! If you would like to speak with a bilingual (Spanish and English) admissions counselor, reach out to Alejandro Barroso Jr. (
barroso@msoe.edu
) or (414) 277-2391.
Attend an Admitted Student Reception
These receptions are your opportunity to mingle with new classmates and meet representatives from MSOE's Office of the President, alumni, faculty, and members of the Student Diversity Council. The event promises to offer good food, fun and giveaways. Exclusive email reminders will be sent one week prior to the receptions. Please see invitation for location details.
Confirm your enrollment
Save your seat in next year's class by
submitting your enrollment deposit
.
Apply for housing
MSOE's
residence halls
are in the heart of campus and where you'll make some of your fondest memories. Visit your Admitted Student Portal to fill out your application for housing.
Submit your final transcripts
Immediately after you graduate from high school, send in an official copy of your high school transcripts. Transcripts can be mailed, emailed to
explore@msoe.edu
or sent through a third party (e.g. Naviance, Parchment, Common App, etc.).
Mailing Address:
Milwaukee School of Engineering
ATTN: Admissions Office
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo