MSOE Scholarships & Grants | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
MSOE Scholarships & Grants
MSOE Scholarships & Grants
MSOE offers a long list of scholarships to help make your education affordable while recognizing student achievement and commitment to academics and service.
Full-time enrollment must be maintained in order to remain eligible to receive MSOE gift aid including the MSOE Academic Scholarship. Full-time enrollment is defined as being registered for 12+ credits per term and is determined by enrollment status as of 4:30 p.m. on Friday of Week One of each term. Students are allowed to request a prorated amount of their MSOE scholarship for part-time enrollment. This exception is available for up to four semesters per student.
The MSOE Academic Scholarship may be extended to a sixth full-time year (up to 12 full-time semesters).
To maintain MSOE Academic Scholarships and Grants, students must meet MSOE's
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)
. For major-specific scholarships, students must remain in an eligible major for scholarship renewal, in addition to meeting other eligibility requirements.
Scholarships for All Students:
Visit Incentive Grant
MSOE’s Visit Incentive Grant is available to incoming undergraduate students who have attended an official MSOE Admission campus visit or event. To receive this tuition-based grant, students must complete the FAFSA application annually. This grant is a one-time award and is not renewable.
Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) Scholarship
To be considered for this tuition-based scholarship, incoming freshmen, transfer and international students must submit proof that they received the CNA certificate to their admission counselor. This scholarship is renewable up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
Students who receive their CNA while enrolled at MSOE are not eligible to receive this scholarship.
Resident Assistant Housing Scholarship
The Resident Assistant Housing Scholarship amount represents the room cost and meal allowance associated with an individual’s selection as a resident assistant. Contact the university’s housing department with any additional questions.
MSOE Student Emergency Financial Assistance
The
Dean of Students Office
may be able to offer financial assistance on a limited basis for emergency or extenuating circumstances.  Visit their
website
to apply.
Outside Resources
Americorp Application
Students wishing to utilize their Americorp benefits may request funding to be applied to their MSOE Financial Aid account. To do so, visit the Americorp website and request which term and how much in funding you would like sent to MSOE. Funding will typically be processed in two payments, one at the beginning of the term, and the other at the midpoint. Please plan accordingly. All Americorp funds will be added to a student's account for the certified term as a "Miscellaneous Scholarship."
Donor Funded Scholarships
After the initial Financial Aid Offer is made, students may be awarded one of MSOE's donor-funded scholarships. These scholarships are provided by MSOE corporate donors and alumni, and they typically fund/sponsor a portion of a student's academic merit Scholarship. These types of scholarships are critical to MSOE's scholarship program.
Miscellaneous Scholarships
Outside, or miscellaneous, scholarship funds are awarded through private entities such as churches, non-profits, local organizations, etc. outside of MSOE. In most cases, the organization or the student will send the check to the Financial Aid Office, and we will apply it toward the student's financial aid offer.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo