Visit MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Visit MSOE
Visit MSOE
We can’t wait for you to visit us!
At MSOE, we know that visiting campus is a crucial step in the college search process, and that is why we are dedicated to giving our families the best experience possible. We are so proud of our university and we look forward to showing you what MSOE has to offer. Whether you are a freshman in high school only starting to think about the future or an accepted high school senior ready to commit to a college, we have a visit for you! Not sure what visit opportunity is best for you? Please give us a call at (800) 332-6763, and we will help you.
Directions to MSOE →
Campus Map →
High School Campus Visits & Tours
Campus visits are focused on you! During your visit, you will meet with an admission counselor to develop your MSOE plan for success. You will also receive a thorough campus tour of our classrooms, labs, and facilities.
Visits are available by appointment Monday through Friday at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m., as well as on select Saturdays at 9 a.m.
HIGH SCHOOL SENIORS:   Click Here to Register for Your Visit →
HIGH SCHOOL FRESHMAN - JUNIORS:   Click Here to Register for Your Visit →
SATURDAY CAMPUS VISITS:   Click Here to Register for your Visit →
Transfer Student Campus Visits & Tours
Are you ready to discover how transferring to MSOE might look? Campus visits are focused on you! During your visit, you will meet with an admission counselor to develop your MSOE plan for success.
Visits are available by appointment Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m., as well as on select Saturdays at 9 a.m.
TRANSFER STUDENTS:   Click Here to Register for Your Visit →
SATURDAY CAMPUS VISITS:   Click Here to Register for your Visit →
International Student On-Campus Visits & Tours
Campus visits are focused on you! During your visit, you will meet with an admission counselor to develop your MSOE plan for success. You will also receive a thorough campus tour of our classrooms, labs, and facilities.
Visits are available by appointment Monday through Friday at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS:  Click Here to Register for Your Visit →
Admitted Student Days
Audience: Admitted High School Seniors & Transfer Students
Admitted Student Days are designed for high school seniors and transfer students who have been admitted to MSOE for the upcoming year. Join us for a full day on campus learning more about the MSOE experience. Visiting students will spend the mornings learning more about their academic programs by attending student-led panel discussions, meeting with program directors, and more. Parents and guardians will have the opportunity to hear from experts on campus about the MSOE experience. Enjoy a free lunch in our Spitzer Dining Commons before spending the afternoon learning about all the exciting things that MSOE has to offer.
Click Here to Register  →
Admitted Student Overnights
Audience: Admitted High School Seniors
Have you been accepted to MSOE for Fall 2026 and interested in getting a preview of campus life? Are you registered for an Admitted Student Day and wanting to see what MSOE has to offer outside the classroom? Join us for an MSOE Admitted Student Night, scheduled after select Admitted Student Days!
When: March 13th, 2026, March 27th, 2026, & April 17th, 2026.
Click Here to Register  →
Open Houses
Audience: High School Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors & Transfer Students
MSOE Open Houses are designed to target prospective students in the beginning stages of the enrollment process. High school sophomores, juniors, and seniors, as well as prospective transfer students, are encouraged to attend. The day will end with the opportunity to hear from current students about their experience at MSOE and dedicated time with the Admissions staff.
Click Here to Register  →
Transfer Preview Nights
Are you thinking about transferring? Discover your future at MSOE!
Transfer Preview Nights are your exclusive opportunity to explore everything the Milwaukee School of Engineering has to offer—all in one exciting evening on campus! Get insider tips on the transfer process, chat with Admissions and Financial Aid experts, tour our innovative campus and facilities, and connect with current MSOE students.
Click Here to Register →
Virtual Events
Join one of our multiple Virtual Events to learn about different majors, campus life, financial aid, tips and tricks for your collegiate search, and to get a better understanding of what MSOE has to offer. These online events are hosted by a wide range of MSOE staff, current students, and faculty.
Ready, Set, College!
Beyond The Sticker Price
Financial aid offers can incredibly confusing. Between subsidized versus unsubsidized loans and work-study versus grants, it's hard knowing to know exactly what's expected of your bank account come fall. We want to help you cut through the noise. Join us for a live webinar where we'll break down a sample aid offer line-by-line.
Register Here:
February 11th
,
March 11th
, and
April 8th
.
Bridge To Campus
Why wait for a high school diploma to start your university journey? Many students don't realize that college campuses are already open to them. Whether it's attending a Summer camp, enrolling in credit-bearing courses, or participating in collegiate clubs, the head start is availavle if you know where to look. Join us for a live webinar where we will dive into the world of pre-college engagement.
When:
March 25th
Math Resources
Join the Director of Math Support at MSOE as he discusses how to be successful in Math at MSOE and what the Raider Center of Academic Success (RCAS) does to support their student's as they go through their Math sequence.
When:
March 4th
Decision Day Ready
The acceptance letters are in, the financial aid packages have arrived, and the clock is ticking toward May 1st. You've done the hard work of applying, now comes the hardest part: choosing where you actually belong. Join us for an interactive webinar designed to turn your maybe list into a confident yes. Whether you're torn between two schools or staring at a pile of options, this session will provide the framework you need to make the right decision.
When:
April 15th
Sticker Scare
Don't let the sticker price scare you away from your dream education. Join MSOE Director of Admissions, Emma Philipps, as she discusses the common misconceptions and concerns around college tuition. Learn how scholarships and financial aid can help you walk away with a great deal and even greater education.
When:
May 20th
Home Away From Home
Picking a residence hall isn't just about where you'll sleep, it's about where you'll study for your fisrt finals, meet your best friends, and start your independent life. We're pulling back the curtain on the housing process to help you move from confused applicant to confident resident. This webinar is your step-by-step roadmap to the housing portal, designed to help you snag the best possible setup for your lifestyle and personality.
When:
Dates coming soon!
Summer Programs
Spend a week on campus in the month of July and explore numerous career possibilities in the STEM, business and health care fields. Experience MSOE’s academic offerings, campus life, and downtown Milwaukee. Summer Programs are open to high school freshmen, sophomores and juniors.
Learn More →
Group Tours
Interested in scheduling a group tour? We are to host on a limited case-by-case basis when availability allows.
To schedule your group tour with MSOE, please contact Daniel Weston, Assistant Director of Admissions Engagement, at (414) 277-2392 or
weston@msoe.edu
.
Summer Campus Visits & Tours
Whether you are in high school, a transfer student, or not quite sure what you're looking for, summer campus visits are for you! During your visit, you will meet with an admission counselor to develop your MSOE plan for success. You will also receive a thorough campus tour of our classrooms, labs, and facilities.
Summer visits are available June through August by appointment on Monday through Friday at 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Visitor Information
Both MSOE and Milwaukee love having visitors. Whether you’re coming for a few hours or the whole weekend, there are lots of things to do both on and off campus.
Learn More →
Virtual Tours
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tours of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district and so much more.
Schedule a Visit in Spanish
¿Está interesado en asistir a un recorrido por nuestro campus en español? ¡Comuníquese con nuestro consejero de admisiones bilingüe, Alejandro Barroso Jr.! ¡Usando su correo electrónico, mande un mensaje a barroso@msoe.edu para programar una visita!
Programa una visita
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Visit the Raider Shop!
Don't forget to stop by the Raider Shop for all your MSOE gear needs!
Career Outcomes Rate
96%
Class of 2024-25
U.S. News & World Report
2nd
Best University in the Midwest, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
#9
Undergraduate Engineering Program Nationwide, 2026
U.S. News & World Report
4th
Best Value University in the Midwest, 2026
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo