Veterans Benefits | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Veterans Benefits
MSOE Veterans Information
MSOE is proud to offer many resources for current military, veterans, and veteran dependents. Our staff is dedicated to providing exemplary service to military members in areas such as financial aid, academics, and support services.
MSOE has been designated a Military Friendly® School by VIQTORY every year since 2013.
Education Benefit Types
MSOE participates in a wide range of federal and state benefits for veterans, reservists, National Guard members, and dependents.
Post 9/11 G.I. Bill® & Yellow Ribbon Program (Chapter 33)
Chapter 33 Post 9/11 GI Bill program provides up to 36 months of education benefits, which are based off the amount of active duty time served. For information on benefit level and payment information, download our
Post 9/11 Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at
http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill.
Veteran Readiness & Employment (Chapter 31)
Chapter 31 Veteran Readiness and Employment is a program to assist veterans who have a service connected disability. The VA will pay required costs, such as tuition and fees, books, supplies, equipment, and if needed, special services. For more information, download our
VR&E Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
Montgomery G.I. Bill Selected Reserve (Chapter 1606)
The Montgomery GI Bill – Selected Reserve program may be available to you if you are a member of the Selected Reserve (Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Air Force Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Coast Guard Reserve, and the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard). For eligibility criteria and payment information, download our
Montgomery G.I. Bill Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
Survivors & Dependents’ Educational Assistance (Chapter 35)
Chapter 35 Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance provides education and training opportunities to eligible dependents of veterans who are permanently and totally disabled due to a service-related condition, or who died while on active duty or as a result of a service related condition. The program offers up to 45 months of education benefits. To learn more, please download our
Survivors & Dependent Assistance Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
Wisconsin National Guard Tuition Grant
All Wisconsin National Guard enlisted members and warrant officers in good standing who do not possess a bachelor’s degree are eligible to receive the Wisconsin National Guard Tuition Grant. This benefit may be used toward eight (8) semesters of your college undergraduate education. For more information, download our
National Guard Tuition Grant Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
Wisconsin Veteran’s Education Grant
The Wisconsin Veterans Education Grant program may be available to you if you are a Wisconsin veteran who has not yet been awarded a bachelor’s degree. For more information, download our
WI Veterans Education Grant Fact Sheet (PDF)
. NOTE: Students interested in Vet Ed will need to apply through their local County Veterans Service Office.
Federal Military Tuition Assistance
The Tuition Assistance (TA) program provides financial assistance for voluntary off-duty education programs. TA is available for courses that are offered in the classroom or by distance learning and is part of an approved academic degree or certificate program.
To apply, students must go to their local installation education center, go online to a virtual education center, or click on the following links for each service branch:
Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Prospective students wishing to use Federal Military Tuition Assistance are directed to receive approval from your ESO, military counselor, or service prior to enrollment.
For more information on eligibility and how to apply, download our
Tuition Assistance Fact Sheet (PDF)
.
How to Apply for Benefits
To get veteran or reservist benefits at MSOE, students will need to complete the following steps:
You will need to apply for benefits online through the VA Online Application. Please visit the
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs website
to get started.
Submit a signed
Veteran Benefit Payment Agreement
.
Submit a copy of your DD-214 (veterans) or Notice of Basic Eligibility (reservist)
Submit a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility or Statement of Benefits (generated once you apply for benefits online)
If you are a Voc Rehab or VR and E student, please have your Counselor email the authorization for your benefits to finaid@msoe.edu and payments@msoe.edu
Campus Resources
MSOE has many resources on campus for veterans and military members. Below are just a few of the benefits military members have:
Military & Veteran Student Group
Veterans Lounge
Priority Registration
Raider Shop Discount
Student Veteran Parking Spots
In-depth information about each of these as well as a list of all resources on our
Veteran's Support Services
page.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo