Freshmen Scholarships (U.S. Students) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
MSOE Scholarships & Grants
Freshmen Scholarships (U.S. Students)
Freshmen Scholarships (U.S. Students)
Explore scholarship opportunities at MSOE for incoming freshmen.
Academic Merit Scholarships
MSOE offers academic tuition-based scholarships to incoming freshmen based on their high school cumulative GPA. Academic scholarships are renewable for returning students on a yearly basis up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as they continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy
.
MSOE Presidential Scholarship
The Presidential Scholarship is a four-year, full-tuition, room and board scholarship. Students who qualify for consideration must have a cumulative unweighted grade point average of 3.8 or higher on a 4.0 scale. Students must file the FAFSA each academic year to receive their scholarship. Currently, transfer students are not eligible to receive the Presidential scholarship. For questions, please contact the Admissions Office.
Presidential scholars must maintain full-time enrollment status to remain eligible for their scholarship. Scholarship reviews and revisions will be conducted and made after spring term each year at MSOE. Students maintaining a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.0 or above on a 4.0 scale, at the time of review, will continue to receive the Presidential Scholarship award for the following academic year. Students with a cumulative grade point average below 3.0 will not be eligible for the Presidential Scholarship for the next academic year of study. In this case, the student would be offered their initial MSOE Academic Scholarship.
A student who is not eligible for the Presidential Scholarship in one year can regain eligibility for the following year if they raise their CGPA above 3.0 by the end of the spring term and contact the Financial Aid Office.
The Presidential Scholarship has a four-year or 8 term limit. Following this, students will be offered their initial MSOE Academic Scholarship.
Students who are eligible to apply for the Presidential Scholarship will be notified by the Admissions Office in November with steps to apply
Destination MSOE Scholarship (PLTW, FIRST, Skills USA, VEX or TSA)
Incoming freshmen students who have participated in Project Lead the Way (PLTW), FIRST Robotics, Skills USA, VEX or TSA high school programs are eligible to receive a tuition- based scholarship, renewable for up to six years (12 full-time terms). Students who have participated in more than one of these organizations or who have taken more than one PLTW class are only eligible for one tuition-based scholarship. Requirements to receive the scholarship if involved in:
FIRST, Skills USA, VEX, TSA:
Students must submit a letter of recommendation from their team leader or coach attesting to participation in one of the above high school programs by January 1st. Letters of recommendation must indicate team name and team number.
PLTW:
Students must submit their high school transcript with at least one PLTW class listed on the transcript to their Admission Counselor.
MSOE Grant
Incoming undergraduate students may be eligible for an MSOE Grant. Students are required to complete the FAFSA annually to apply for the MSOE Grant. The MSOE Grant amount varies based on financial need, which is determined by the FAFSA, and therefore, is subject to change from year to year. Students must file the FAFSA each year and maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) to receive all the aid for which they are eligible.
To maintain eligibility, students must be enrolled full-time and meet the
SAP Policy.
MSOE Housing Grant
Undergraduate students who live on campus and have a 7-day meal plan may be eligible for an MSOE Housing Grant. Students are required to complete the FAFSA annually to apply for the MSOE Housing Grant. The MSOE Housing Grant amount varies based on financial need, which is determined by the FAFSA, and therefore, is subject to change from year to year. Students must file the FAFSA each year, enroll full-time, and maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) to receive all the aid for which they are eligible.
Distributive Education Clubs of America (DECA) Scholarship
To be considered for the DECA Scholarship, incoming freshman students must submit a letter of recommendation from the student’s DECA advisor to their admission counselor. This scholarship is a renewable tuition- based scholarship up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full time and meet the
SAP policy.
Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) Scholarship
To be considered for the FBLA scholarship, incoming freshmen students must submit a letter of recommendation from the student’s FBLA advisor to their admission counselor. This tuition-based scholarship is renewable up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
Legacy Scholarship
This tuition-based scholarship is for full-time incoming freshmen and transfer students who have a parent, grandparent, or great-grandparent who graduated from MSOE. Students with multiple alumni family members will only receive one per year. To receive the scholarship, students must indicate that a parent or grandparent is a graduate of MSOE on the admission application. MSOE’s Financial Aid Office may contact students to confirm the name of the parent/grandparent prior to awarding the scholarship. This award is is renewable up to six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy
.
Rube Goldberg Scholarship
To be considered for the Rube Goldberg Scholarship, incoming freshmen students need to submit a letter of recommendation from their Rube Goldberg coach to their admission counselor. This tuition-based scholarship is renewable for up to six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
Science Olympiad Protein Modeling Scholarship
The Science Olympiad Protein Modeling Scholarship is a competitive scholarship program for incoming freshmen students who participated in the Science Olympiad Protein Modeling event at the National Tournament any time during high school.  To receive the scholarship, students must submit a letter of recommendation from the student’s Science Olympiad team coach to the student’s admission counselor. The tuition-based scholarship is renewable up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy
.
Scout Scholarship
Incoming freshmen students who have participated in Scouts and have obtained or are working towards obtaining their Eagle Scout Rank or Gold Award are eligible for a scholarship.  If a student is working towards their Eagle Scout rank, they will need to notify their admissions counselor and have the letter of verification from their scoutmaster stating the expected completion date. To receive this scholarship, students must submit a letter of recommendation from their scout master, troop leader, or crew advisor to their admission counselor. This tuition-based scholarship is renewable for up to six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
SMART Teams Scholarship
The SMART (Student Modeling A Research Topic) Teams Scholarship is a competitive scholarship program for incoming freshmen students who participated in SMART teams any time during high school. To apply for this scholarship, students must submit a letter of recommendation from an adult SMART Team teacher or mentor to their admissions counselor. The tuition- based scholarship is renewable up to a maximum of six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full time and meet the
SAP policy.
Summer Programs Scholarship
Incoming freshmen and international students who have participated in MSOE’s Summer Programs during high school are eligible to receive a tuition-based scholarship. This tuition-based scholarship is renewable for up to six years (12 full-time terms) so long as students continue to be full-time and meet the
SAP policy.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo