Money Matters | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Scholarships and Grants
Money Matters
Money Matters
Scholarships are a great way to help pay for college. The Financial Aid Office encourages students to apply for private scholarships. If you've been awarded a private scholarship, please notify our office at finaid@msoe.edu.
MSOE Donor-Funded Scholarships
If you are potentially eligible for a specific donor-funded scholarship, the Financial Aid Office will email you with details and the application. We will begin notifying students about scholarships for the 2026-27 year in February 2026 and continue through the spring.
There will be no General Scholarship Application.
Most donor-funded scholarship
renewals
will not require a new application if the student meets renewal criteria.
Private Scholarship Opportunities for MSOE Students
*NEW!*
Association of IT Professionals (AITP) Scholarship f
or 2026-27:
This financial award, referred to as the Sherry Anklam Memorial Award or SAMA, is offered in the Spring and/or Fall of each school year to worthy applicants who are active in the IT community and/or their local IT clubs.
Applicant must be attending a college, university or technical college located in Wisconsin or Michigan’s Upper Peninsula.
Applications due 4/30/2026.
The criteria for selection for this award includes academic achievement, leadership, IT club & IT community participation, and non-IT community involvement.
Find application and more information on the AITP website:
NEW AITP - Student Awards (SAMA)
Private Scholarships Websites
Private scholarships are given to students from donors and organizations outside of MSOE. These include academic societies, foundations, community organizations, workplaces, and so much more! These scholarships require a separate application to be submitted directly to the grantor of the scholarship. While MSOE is providing these sites, we do not endorse nor are we affiliated with any of the private resources listed.
Asian & Pacific Islander American Scholarship Fund
Career One Stop
College Board
College Greenlight
College Scholarships
College Scholarship Search
Fast WEB
Fin Aid
Graduate Tutor
International Education Financial Aid
International Scholarships
Point Foundation Scholarship
Scholly Scholarships by Sallie
The Scholarship Institute
Scholarships.com
Super College
Thomson Peterson's
Thurgood Marshall College Fund
Tuition Funding Sources
Resources for Undocumented Students
Although undocumented students are not eligible for federal aid, MSOE does recommend that undocumented students contact our office for further assistance and navigation of their financial aid process. While not exhaustive, the list below provides links to outside resources.
My Undocumented Life
Big Future - College Board
Immigrants Rising
United We Dream
The Dream
College Consensus- Comprehensive Guide to College for Undocumented and DACA Students
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo