International Graduate Students | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
Future International Students
International Graduate Students
International Graduate Students
MSOE’s graduate programs empower working professionals to grow their skillsets and take their careers to the next level.
MSOE’s graduate programs are designed primarily for working professionals looking to advance their career. Through hands-on learning experiences and coursework applied to their careers, graduate students sharpen their skillsets and gain the knowledge they need to move into management and leadership positions. Therefore, previous and on-going work experience is critical to maximizing learning in MSOE graduate programs as classroom, group interaction and assignments are designed to draw on professional experience. This page will guide you to the resources and links you need to learn more about MSOE’s graduate programs and international admission.
Scholarships
MSOE does not offer scholarships at the graduate level.  There are some limited work opportunities available through some of the programs.
STEM Designated Programs
Please see below for a list of all of our STEM designated graduate programs.
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Engineering Management
Master of Science in Civil Engineering
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering
Master of Science in Machine Learning
Find out what it takes to get admitted into MSOE's graduate degree programs.
All international graduate students for the 2023-2024 academic year are required to certify funds for one year of study for tuition and fees, living expenses, and health insurance. The cost is reflected by which program you are enrolling into.
Explore the programs that MSOE has to offer.
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
International Admissions
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
international@msoe.edu
WeChat
: MSOE-Admissions-Team
Whatsapp
: +1 414 374 6252
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo