Financial Wellness | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Wellness
Financial Wellness
Just as a plant needs sunlight and water to grow, we believe that our students need a strong understanding of finances in order to thrive. Whether you're just getting started in your MSOE journey or are ready to graduate, the MSOE Financial Aid Office is here to help you every step of the way.
GradReady – Interactive Financial literacy Program
Need help managing your tuition, budget or bills? This money saving, student loan explaining site has great videos, tools, and resources to help you get real-world ready. This tool is available to students, faculty, staff, and alumni by creating an account at
https://gradready.com/sponsor/msoe.
Learn about financial aid
Evaluate loan options
Create a Financing Plan
Consider debt-to-income scenarios
Establish an in-school budget
Free Annual Credit Reports
Federal law requires each of the three nationwide consumer credit reporting companies - Equifax, Experian and TransUnion - to give you a free credit report every 12 months if you ask for it. They also make it easy to accomplish many credit-related tasks right from your computer. For more information and to request your free credit report, please visit
www.annualcreditreport.com
.
Available Education Tax Benefits
The federal government makes available various education credits and deductions to help make college more affordable.
Please consult with a tax professional to determine which benefit is best for you or review
IRS Publication 970
for more information on the benefits below.
American Opportunity Tax Credit
You may be able to claim a credit of up to $2,500 for adjusted qualified education expenses paid for each student who qualifies for the American opportunity credit. A tax credit reduces the amount of income tax you may have to pay. Unlike a deduction, which reduces the amount of income subject to tax, a credit directly reduces the tax itself. Forty percent of the American opportunity credit may be refundable. This means that if the refundable portion of your credit is more than your tax, the excess will be refunded to you. Your allowable American opportunity credit may be limited by the amount of your income. Also, the nonrefundable part of the credit may be limited by the amount of your tax.
Lifetime Learning Credit
You may be able to claim a lifetime learning credit of up to $2,000 for qualified education expenses paid for all eligible students. There is no limit on the number of years the lifetime learning credit can be claimed for each student.
Tuition and Fee Deduction
The tuition and fees deduction can reduce the amount of your income subject to tax by up to $4,000. This deduction is claimed as an adjustment to income. This means you can claim this deduction even if you don't itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040). This deduction may be beneficial to you if you don't qualify for the American opportunity or lifetime learning credits.
Student Loan Interest Deduction
This deduction can reduce the amount of your income subject to tax by up to $2,500. The student loan interest deduction is claimed as an adjustment to income. This means you can claim this deduction even if you don't itemize deductions.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo