Financial Aid & Scholarships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Students and their parents often look at the cost of a college education and wonder if all of the hard work and tuition dollars are worth it in the end. Be assured that your MSOE education is an investment that will pay off for a lifetime.
The Financial Aid Office is dedicated to helping you identify the best resources available to assist in completing your education at MSOE. There are a variety of loans, scholarships and financial aid opportunities that you may be eligible to take advantage of. Below are a number of resources to help you get started.
The Financial Aid Office staff serves every student with respect and transparency regardless of background or personal identity. Through comprehensive counseling and financial literacy, our staff supports students throughout their academic journey and strives to remove financial and administrative barriers. We work to provide resources to those who need it most--such as scholarships for underrepresented populations, financial wellness sessions for first-generation college students, and specialized counseling for our military and veteran students,
Contacting Financial Aid:
Your Financial Aid Portal:
Visit
myfinancialaid.msoe.edu
or my.msoe.edu.
Submitting Documents:
We have a drop box outside our office for after normal business hours. Please do not electronically send us sensitive documents without first taking the proper steps to black out and secure sensitive information. Files can be sent to us by filling out the form at
Financial Aid File Upload
Office Hours:
Monday - Friday:  8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Our Office is located in Campus Center 301.
Contact Financial Aid:
Email the Financial Aid Office at finaid@msoe.edu or call us at 414-277-7223.
Walk-In:
MSOE's Financial Aid Office is currently open to walk-in traffic during our normal office hours. No appointment is needed!
Video Calls:
The MSOE Financial Aid Office also takes student and parent requests for video and phone call meetings via Microsoft Teams during our regular hours. To set up a video call with the walk-in counselor, students and parents should
email Financial Aid
or call (414) 277-7223.
Financial Aid Handbook:
Our
2025-2026 financial aid handbook
is now available for download! View helpful and pertinent information for financial aid for the 2025-2026 academic year.
You may also
view the prior academic year's financial aid handbook.
Financial Aid Basics
Scholarships and Grants
Loans
Student Employment/ Work Study
Graduate Student Financial Aid
Financial Aid Estimator
Money Matters
Tuition and Fees
Forms and Resources
Return of Financial Aid Policy
Disbursement of Aid
MSOE Cost of Attendance
MSOE students will need their MSOE email to log into their my Financial Aid account to check the status of their financial aid award.  Incoming students will receive their MSOE email account once they are registered for classes.
Financial Aid Office
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7223
finaid@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Student Accounts
1025 North Broadway
CC301
Milwaukee, WI 53202
414-277-7130
payments@msoe.edu
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday:
8am - 4:30pm
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo