Teachers and SchoolCounselors | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
Undergraduate Admissions
Teachers and School Counselors
Teachers & School Counselors
You play a valuable role in helping students navigate the college admissions process, and we’re here to support you and answer any questions.
Choosing a college may be the most important decision a young person ever makes, and there’s a lot to consider: the quality of the academics, program options, class sizes, facilities, campus feel, location and cost. MSOE is also known for its exceptional return on investment, with high job placement rates and high starting salaries that make an MSOE education a remarkable value. Learn more about the
MSOE Advantage
.
Important Dates to Remember
July 1
: MSOE starts accepting applications for the following school year
October 1
: FAFSA application opens
Mid-October
: Admissions decisions are released
Mid-December
: Financial aid award letter processing begins
May 1
: Enrollment deposit deadline (recommended)
Before a student commits to a college, it’s important to see the campus and community firsthand to make sure it’s a good fit. We look forward to hosting your student and showing you what makes an MSOE education so distinctive.
It’s never too early to get your students excited about their future.
The Early College Credit Program (ECCP) allows for high school students to take classes at MSOE and gain both high school and college credit. Please reach out to your high school guidance counselor today to see if your high school participates in MSOE’s Early College Credit Program!
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Intererested in learning more about MSOE? Contact our Director of Admissions to schedule a meeting.
Emma Philipps, Director of Admissions
414-277-7146
philipps@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo