International Undergraduate Checklist | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Admissions & Aid
International Admissions
Future International Students
International Undergraduate Students
International Undergraduate Checklist
Checklist for International Undergraduate Students
Follow these steps to complete the application and admission process.
Outlined below is the series of steps that an international student will need to work through starting from submitting the free online application through enrolling in courses here on campus.  As always, please feel free to contact the MSOE International Admission team with any questions along the way.  Contact information, including WhatsApp and WeChat is listed in the sidebar.
Complete the free online application.
Submit official high school and/or college transcripts, proof of English proficiency and a copy of your passport.
Arrange a visit in person or schedule a virtual meeting with the international admission team..
US law requires that international students on an F-1 visa must demonstrate financial capability as part of the admissions and visa application processes. The amount of merit scholarship you received will determine how much your financial guarantee must show. Students must show proof of financial ability for 1 year of tuition and fees, living expenses, and health insurance.
Your enrollment deposit reserves your seat at MSOE and needs to be paid before your I-20 is released.
If you plan to live on campus, you will need to complete either the residence hall application or the Grohmann Tower application.
Find details regarding the insurance plan that MSOE provides through WPS or PSI Insurance and how to request an insurance waiver.
You will need to submit original documents of all transcripts, test scores, financial guarantee documents, etc. before being able to enroll in classes.
The international admissions team will register you for your first semester of classes. You will need to submit final transcripts from any high school or college course work that you have taken, including AP/IB course work for possible credit towards your degree program.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
International Admissions
1025 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
+1 (414) 277-7200
international@msoe.edu
WeChat
: MSOE-Admissions-Team
Whatsapp
: +1 414 374 6252
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo