AI Education | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
AI and MSOE
AI Education
AI Education
At MSOE, we don’t just teach AI, we practice AI.
Prepare for the future and lead adoption of new technologies with a degree or certificate focused on machine learning, artificial intelligence, or computer science from MSOE.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is interwoven throughout the curriculum at MSOE to prepare students to become experts in their fields and tackle the technological challenges of tomorrow. With AI-centered courses, students are empowered to delve deep into theory and gain practical experience exploring hands-on projects.
Courses at the graduate level are available in an online synchronous format. This enables working professionals to take classes that fit their schedule while still obtaining important faculty-student interaction that MSOE is known for. These courses offer that small classroom feel with mentoring just a click away.
Biomedical engineers use engineering principles to create and enhance health care equipment and technology. The AI path includes courses that prepare students for careers involving data science, machine learning and AI in the medical device industry and biomedical research.
Graduates of MSOE’s computer science program will be prepared to write cutting-edge software to solve tomorrow’s problems with a special emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Students in the user experience program gain essential skills to design digital experiences, products and services for customers and end users. This program embraces immersive technologies, physical product design, generative AI and foundational front-end development.
Leverage your programming skills and dive into advanced concepts with the Master of Science in Machine Learning. This online program includes depth of technical content, industry applications, use of Rosie the supercomputer, small classes and industry experienced faculty.
An interdisciplinary sequence of asynchronous course work, combined with a practicum experience that allows students from any major to develop a breadth of skills in the emerging realm of artificial intelligence (AI).
The cybersecurity minor provides students with exposure to the technical skills necessary to design and engineer modern, resilient, cybersecure products.
The data science minor fosters expertise in software development, data analysis, computational science, machine learning, statistics, high-performance computing and AI that complements a student’s domain expertise from their major.
Develop machine learning and artificial intelligence expertise to take your career to the next level.
Deep technical content that will enable the student to bring machine learning solutions into production in their industry.
Business leaders who have a minimum of 3 years of experience in a professional position can build on existing business acumen.
The AI / Machine Learning Professional Certificate programs provide diverse professionals and businesses with the cutting-edge knowledge and skills required to continuously advance expertise and maintain a competitive edge in the evolving field of artificial intelligence.
Emma Philipps
Director of Admissions
(414) 277-7146
philipps@msoe.edu
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo