AI Week Parking and Directions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
AI and MSOE
MSOE AI Week
AI Week Parking and Directions
AI Week Parking and Directions
MSOE's campus, located in downtown Milwaukee, is easy to navigate.
Parking
MSOE faculty, staff and students
MSOE students and employees are asked to park in their typical locations on campus.
Guests
On-campus parking is very limited. Please adhere to the guidelines posted below. For times when on-campus parking is not available, guests can find parking in one of several paid parking garages near campus. Visit
MilwaukeeDowntown.com
for a map of locations. Filter your search by choosing the East Town neighborhood. Metered street parking (2-hour limit) is also available throughout campus. See posted signs for details.
Monday, April 20:
After 4 p.m., park in any MSOE lot (except Water Street and Viets Field) until 10 p.m.
msoe.edu/map
Tuesday, April 21:
After 4 p.m., park in any MSOE lot (except Water Street and Viets Field) until 10 p.m.
msoe.edu/map
Thursday, April 23:
On-campus parking not available. Please use nearby parking garages or metered street parking. Visit
MilwaukeeDowntown.com
for a map of locations. Filter your search by choosing the East Town neighborhood. Metered street parking (2-hour limit) is also available throughout campus. See posted signs for details.
Saturday, April 25:
Park in any MSOE lot (except Water Street and Viets Field) from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
msoe.edu/map
Sunday, April 26:
Park in any MSOE lot (except Water Street and Viets Field) from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
msoe.edu/map
Directions
Conveniently located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee – and close to all major thoroughfares – MSOE is easily accessible when traveling from out of town.
From the North (via I-43)
Take I-43 south to downtown Milwaukee. Then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Turn left (east) on McKinley; proceed for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the North (via 41/45)
Take Highway 41 south to Milwaukee; then take I-94 east to downtown Milwaukee; then take I-43 north toward Green Bay (exit # 310B; then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the South
Take I-94 west/I-43 north to downtown Milwaukee. Continue north on I-43, then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the West
Take I-94 east to downtown Milwaukee; then take I-43 north toward Green Bay (exit # 310B); 794; then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo