AI Multimedia | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
AI and MSOE
AI Multimedia
AI Multimedia
How does MSOE use artificial intelligence? See and hear for yourself how MSOE students, faculty and staff are leading the way with applied AI.
Podcasts
The AI Degree Built to Solve Real-World Problems
The Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) didn’t just see AI coming—they got out in front of it. Dr. John Walz, President of MSOE, joins The TechEd Podcast to discuss how his institution became one of the first in the nation to offer a baccalaureate degree in AI and how it continues to lead in engineering, computing, and applied AI technology.
Get Down to College Business: An Operational To-do List for AI in Academia
Sean Jones, assistant professor of computer science, sits down with Sarah Holtan, Ph.D. to delve into how AI technologies like ChatGPT are redefining the academic landscape, the imperative challenges they pose, and how institutions can adapt to embrace AI while ensuring academic integrity and addressing bias.
Tech in MKE: MSOE A.I. and ChatGPT Discussion
This Tech in MKE episode features Sean Jones and Jeremy Kedziora, computer science professors at MSOE. The two of them sat down to talk about ChatGPT, its ethics and impact.
Tech in MKE: Milwaukee School of Engineering President Dr. John Walz
Milwaukee is gaining a national reputation as a tech hub and Milwaukee School of Engineering is at the heart of it all. President John Walz sat down with Steve Glynn at the “
Tech in MKE
” podcast to discuss how MSOE is contributing to Milwaukee’s brain gain, attracting and retaining tech talent to power our region.
Listen to hear how MSOE is doubling down on tech—especially emerging technologies.
MSOE's podcast, Rethink What's Possible
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming prominent in more and more industries each day, including health care. Listen to Dr. Sheila Ross, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department chairperson; Dr. John Bukowy, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department assistant professor; and student Ethan Hindes discuss the advancements of AI, its impact on their research on kidneys with the Medical College of Wisconsin, and how Hindes found his way to computer science.
AI Videos
1 / 4
Applied AI education is cross-disciplinary at MSOE.
2 / 4
MSOE is leading the way in applied AI.
3 / 4
Unique to MSOE, "Rosie", MSOE's supercomputer, is available to undergraduate students, offering them the ability to apply their learning in a hands-on environment to prepare for their careers.
4 / 4
In MSOE's annual Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge, groups of students from different majors harness the power of Rosie to go beyond their course work and improve a process using artificial intelligence.
Emma Philipps
Director of Admissions
(414) 277-7146
philipps@msoe.edu
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo