Saturday, April 25 Schedule | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
AI and MSOE
MSOE AI Week
Saturday, April 25 Schedule
AI Week at MSOE: Saturday, April 25 Schedule
Exploring Frontiers: AI, Innovation and Emerging Technologies
Audience: Industry and healthcare professionals, research and higher education faculty, students and broader community members
Overview
This symposium brings together nationally and internationally recognized experts from cognitive neuroscience, education, sustainability and energy, business analytics, healthcare, cybersecurity and computer science to examine how AI is transforming their fields. Designed for industry professionals, academics, students and the broader community, the program features presentations from domain leaders alongside opportunities for networking and collaboration through breakfast, lunch and dinner receptions.
Why Attend?
Attendees will engage with current research and applications spanning AI in clinical practice, environmental systems, educational innovation, enterprise strategy and security while connecting with peers and experts shaping these disciplines.
Agenda and Speakers
Time
Activity
Location
8-8:30 a.m.
Registration & Breakfast
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
8:30-8:40 a.m.
Welcome & Introductions
Dr. Eric Baumgartner, president, MSOE
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
Minds and Machines:
Reimagining How We Think with AI
8:40-9:25 a.m.
The Flipside of the Human Interface: As Our Tools Evolve to "Think" with Us, We Must Ask, "Who Will Retain the Ability to Think?"
Keynote Presenter:
Nataliya Kosmyna, Ph.D., research scientist, MIT Media Lab, and visiting faculty researcher, Google
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
9:30-10 a.m.
When Copilot Becomes the Pilot, How Can We Fly Safely?
Larry Zhiming Xu, Ph.D., assistant professor of strategic communication and information systems, Marquette University
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
10-10:15 a.m.
Break
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
Care Intelligence:
AI's Transformation of Health
10:15-10:45 a.m.
AI in Neuroimaging: Challenges and Opportunities (virtual presentation)
Max Wintermark, MD, professor and chair of radiology, MD Anderson Cancer Center
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
10:45-11:15 a.m.
Brain and Prostate Cancer Radio-Pathomics at the Medical College of Wisconsin
Peter LaViolette, Ph.D., vice chair of radiology research, Medical College of Wisconsin
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
11:15-11:45 a.m.
Reimagining Healthcare Workflows Using AI
Liz Jensen, Ph.D., MSN, RN-BC, clinical director, Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center
Paula Schmidt, MSN, MBA, RN, NEA-BC, chief nursing officer and vice president, patient care services, Froedtert Hospital
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Lunch and Networking
Building the Future:
AI Innovation, Disruption and What's Next
12:30-1 p.m.
MSOE AI Club: Student Research and Industry Engagement
Networking
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
1-1:45 p.m.
Insights from Working at the Center of AI
Keynote Presenter:
Luke Leonhard, chief of staff, Google DeepMind
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
1:45-2:15 p.m.
AI, Deepfake and the Evolving Cyber Threat Landscape
Aaron Pritz, CEO, principal consultant and co-founder, Reveal Risk
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
2:15-2:30 p.m.
Break
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
2:30-3 p.m.
AI Ambition: Tech, Talent and Transformation in Manufacturing
Tim Dickson, chief digital and information officer, Regal Rexnord
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
3-3:30 p.m.
Powering Growth
Richard Stasik, vice president of regulatory affairs, WEC Business Services
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
3:30-4 p.m.
A Little Closer to AGI Every Day at MSOE
Jeremy Kedziora, Ph.D., associate professor and PieperPower Endowed Chair of AI, MSOE
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
4:15-6 p.m.
Networking Reception
Direct Supply Innovation & Technology Center (ITC)
Register for AI Week at MSOE
Register today for AI Week at MSOE on Thursday, April 23 and Saturday, April 25.
Register
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo