Monday, April 20 Schedule | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
AI and MSOE
MSOE AI Week
Monday, April 20 Schedule
AI Week at MSOE: Monday, April 20 Schedule
Charting the Future: AI, Careers and Connections
Audience: MSOE students & faculty, industry professionals (invitation only)
Overview
This event brings together industry professionals, leaders, MSOE students and faculty to explore how AI is reshaping careers, talent development and hiring across sectors. The session begins with an industry leadership panel where professionals from engineering, business and healthcare discuss AI skills and the future of jobs, addressing what new graduates need to know, the critical competencies they must develop, and how companies are adapting their talent strategies. Panelists will examine current and emerging roles in an AI-driven world, alongside essential graduate skills including data fluency, model understanding, social responsibility and human-centered design.
Following the panel discussion, students will connect with potential employers and industry professionals during a networking reception. This is an opportunity to share how AI is integrated into their foundational MSOE education, discuss emerging career pathways, explore career opportunities and learn what companies seek in new graduates.
Why Attend?
This exclusive networking event brings together industry professionals, leaders, MSOE students and faculty to explore the future of work in an AI-driven world. Join us for meaningful conversations with students and faculty who are actively building AI skills your organization needs while maintaining the rigorous technical and professional foundation MSOE is known for.
Industry Panel : Bridging Academia and Industry: Preparing Graduates for AI-Transformed Career
Hear what the present and future look like for careers, talent and jobs in engineering, business and healthcare within an AI-driven world. Learn directly from industry leaders about the skills and competencies they are seeking in new hires.
Networking
Connect directly with MSOE students to discuss career pathways, internships and hiring needs while exploring how they are developing AI competencies alongside the rigorous technical and professional foundation MSOE is known for.
Agenda and Speakers
Time
Activity
Location
5 p.m.
Welcome and Opening Remarks
Diercks Hall, NVIDIA Auditorium
5:10-6:30 p.m.
Industry Panel:
Bridging Academia and Industry: Preparing Graduates for AI-Transformed Careers
Moderator:
Nancy Connolly, president, Hammes Healthcare
Sarah Alt, chief information officer, Phelps Dunbar LLP
Robert Claus, director of engineering, Plotly
Melissa Desnoyers, global program manager, GE HealthCare
Jon Evans, chief AI officer, Impact Networking
Jack Flitcroft, head of AI, Juno.Tax
Cyndi Petterson, senior manager of firmware engineering, Milwaukee Tool
Jeff Zingsheim, assistant director of engineering, Northwestern Mutual
Diercks Hall, NVIDIA Auditorium
6:30-8 p.m.
AI Networking Event
Sponsored by the MSOE Career Connections Center gold and silver partners.
Beverages and hors d'oeuvres will be served.
Diercks Hall Atrium
Register for AI Week at MSOE
Register today for AI Week at MSOE on Thursday, April 23 and Saturday,  April 25.
Register
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo