Dr. Joseph Rencis '78, '80 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Alumni Awards
Dr. Joseph Rencis '78, '80
Dr. Joseph Rencis '78, '80
2025 Alumni Advocate for Equity and Inclusion
As a first-generation college graduate, Dr. Joseph J. “Joe” Rencis ’78, ’80, knows firsthand that an education can transform lives. Shaped by the values his parents instilled—respect for all people regardless of their background—Joe has spent four decades ensuring all students are provided equal opportunities to succeed. This lifelong commitment is why MSOE is recognizing him with the 2025 Alumni Advocate for Equity and Inclusion Award.
Raised in a low- to middle-income family in rural northwest New Jersey, Joe’s perspective was broadened by personal experience, the experiences of others and mentors who challenged him to think differently. His technical high school drafting teacher, also an engineer, shared with him a lesson that became foundational: “Ninety percent of the world’s products and services cater to the wealthiest 10 percent. Don’t forget about the other 90 percent.” This ignited his passion for student success, and as a result, “I feel like I have to give back,” he said.
As a lifelong learner, Joe credits his career mindset and success to his time at MSOE. As a student, he pursued a degree in architectural and building construction engineering technology. After graduating with an associate degree from MSOE in 1978 and his bachelor’s degree in 1980, he earned his master’s degree in civil engineering from Northwestern University.
After earning his doctorate in civil engineering from Case Western Reserve, he began his academic career at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) in 1985, becoming a tenured professor of mechanical engineering and director of engineering mechanics.
While at WPI, he co-led a project with undergraduate students to develop an engineering curriculum for K-6 students at Worcester Public Schools. In partnership with the teachers at these schools, the curriculum served students from largely low-income backgrounds and high mobility rates. “This had a profound impact on the WPI students and became one of their most memorable experiences at the institution,” Joe recalls.
A cornerstone of Joe's professional philosophy is creating equal opportunities for students to succeed. He effectively put this into practice after becoming dean of engineering at Tennessee Tech University in 2011, following his service as department head of mechanical engineering at the University of Arkansas since 2004. At Tennessee Tech, he championed a student-first approach that aligned with the state's new funding model, which prioritized student progression over enrollment. This collaborative focus was crucial when he helped to establish the Student Success Center. The Center transformed retention and graduation rates, especially for low-income and first-generation students. He played a key role in establishing a clothes closet that provides essential clothing items to those in need, helping them feel more comfortable and confident in their academic environment. He continued to promote student success as dean of engineering at Cal Poly Pomona.
At the University of Albany, SUNY, and the UT Permian Basin, he supported the growth of professional societies such as the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE). His career has been marked not only by academic leadership but also by his drive to ensure all students feel supported and empowered.
Today, as professor and associate dean of the School of Engineering at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University Worldwide in Florida, Joe continues to intertwine his engineering expertise with his advocacy for inclusion. “As an engineer, I strive to uphold principles of innovation and problem-solving, and I recognize that these qualities must also extend to fostering an inclusive environment.”
His leadership approach is simple but powerful: “Step up to take the initiative, step back to allow others to be heard, and step together to use our collective wisdom for decision-making.” He believes that teamwork rooted in inclusiveness leads to more creative engineering solutions and, ultimately, a more robust academic community, which is why he is thrilled to be recognized by his alma mater for this honor.
“This award serves as a reminder of the values I stand for and encourages me to continue working towards fostering an environment where everyone feels heard, understood, acknowledged and valued.”
1 / 3
Joe with students at Tennessee Tech.
2 / 3
Joe speaking after receiving the 2025 ASME Edwin F. Church Medal.
3 / 3
Joe pictured with his wife and fellow inductees at the 2019 Wall of Distinction Ceremony.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo