Alumni Association | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Alumni Association
Alumni Services and Benefits
The impact of your MSOE experience and the connections you made as a student can last a lifetime.
The
MSOE Alumni Association's
mission is to create experiences that connect you to MSOE and foster a lifetime of learning and community among our alumni. As an alumnus, you have access to exclusive benefits and rich opportunities to engage with your alma mater and your peers through virtual and in-person events, digital content and other services.
Membership:
All graduates and former students who were enrolled for credit, all individuals who have received honorary degrees and graduates of the Milwaukee County General Hospital School of Nursing (MCGHSN) are members of the MSOE Alumni Association. There are no dues for membership in the MSOE Alumni Association.
Services and Benefits
As part of the MSOE Alumni Association, there are a variety of services and benefits available to you on campus. We hope you come visit your alma mater and take advantage of the services available to you as an alumnus.
Career Connections Center
- You received a great education, now let us help you further your career. At the Career Connections Center, you have access to a variety of resources to help you navigate the workforce.
Kern Center
- Take advantage of MSOE's premier athletic facility for all your health and wellness needs. Alumni receive a reduced membership rate for access to the Kern Center.
Raider Shop
- Get the latest MSOE gear to show your Raider pride. Alumni get a 20% discount on all merchandise, you just need to mention your class year and major at checkout.
The Grohmann Museum
- Alumni and families get free admission, just mention your class year and major at the front desk.
Update Your Contact Info
Follow the Alumni Facebook Page
Request a Transcript
Submit a Classnote
Read Dimensions Magazine
Alumni Events
There are a host of alumni events held both on and off campus all year round. Check out what's in store and mark your calendars!
See Upcoming Events
Join an Affinity Group
MSOE has a number of affinity groups made up of dedicated alumni and supporters who are passionate about connecting with the MSOE community through their areas of interest.
See the Affinity Groups
Alumni Association Board
The Alumni Association Board consists of alumni from various backgrounds that serve as representatives for the MSOE alumni population and ambassadors for the university.
Learn More
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo