Randy Kirk ’93  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Randy Kirk ’93
Randy Kirk ’93
The youngest of three, Randy Kirk ’93 was born and raised on a dairy farm west of Oshkosh, WI, destined to take over the family farm.  Alas, while attending Omro High School, he fell in love with mathematics and computers, and followed a very different career path.  When it came time for college, Randy applied to Rose Hulman, Michigan Tech, and MSOE.  “Between the computing-related degrees offered, generous financial aid package, and proximity to home, MSOE won the day.  I thank my lucky stars because my life would have been VERY different if not.”
In the fall of 1986, Randy enrolled at MSOE in the Computer Systems and Engineering program.  He was also selected as one of eight students for an experimental honors program.  As part of this program, Randy interned at Cray Research in Chippewa Falls during summer 1987.  That fall when returning for his sophomore year, he began an extended internship at Direct Supply in its second year as a startup.
At Direct Supply, Randy quickly fell in love with business, especially startup culture with many opportunities to apply technology.  In Junior year, he changed his major to Business and Computers Systems, allowing him to work full-time at Direct Supply and take most classes alongside returning professionals in the evening.  “In many ways, I received a core computer science degree with a BS in technical business overlaid.  Applying it daily in my full-time work at Direct Supply created a learning experience beyond any I could hope for.  While I took seven years to finish my degree, the result was a blessing from God with MSOE at its core.”
In May 1993, Randy graduated from MSOE with a Bachelor of Science in Business and Computer Systems.  He continued his work at Direct Supply.  Soon after graduation, Randy helped with the formation of the DSSI Division, the company’s eProcurement business and was promoted to Vice President, Technology in 1995.  After leading his technology team to support DSSI’s rapid growth and maturation, Randy was promoted in 1998 to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, DSSI. In 2009, he became Direct Supply’s first Chief Technology Officer until his most recent promotion in 2013 to Executive Vice President and Chief Scientist, a role he holds to this day.
Randy’s advice to MSOE students, “Embrace your education with passion and zeal.  Integrate classroom learning with practical work experiences.  You get 168 hours each week, spend them mindfully as an investment in your future.  Sleep enough.  Cultivate healthy habits.  Seek to always learn, turning any task into opportunity for unique insights.  Be humble.  Be grateful.  Learn from everyone you meet.  Invest in others, eager to help when needed.  Celebrate individuality.  Be comfortable with who you uniquely are.  Learn something new in every interaction.  Be comfortable with differences.  Remain true to yourself.  Champion others as masters of their path; be master of your own path.”
Randy says its humbling yet heartwarming to receive the Wall of Distinction recognition and he hopes in doing so, his journey inspires others. “I am indebted to my parents for instilling my strong Christian faith and work ethic while encouraging me to be the best steward of my gifts.  I am indebted to my wife and my kids for their love, support of my pursuits, and endurance of my errors.  My life is a life of service.  Indeed, through service I am the best I can be.”
Inductee Speech
Hear what Randy Kirk had to say when he was inducted into the Wall of Distinction.
Watch his speech
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo