MSOE Alumni and PCI | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Alumni Directory
MSOE Alumni and PCI
Alumni Directory Project
Project Update
We understand your frustration and share your disappointment in the delay of this project. The publishing company has faced issues securing a proper printer, and we've voiced our concerns about the unacceptable turnaround time. All customers will still receive access to the digital version once it’s available.
If you prefer to cancel your order, please contact PCI’s customer service at
1-800-982-1590
or
customerservice@publishingconcepts.com
for a full refund.
We sincerely apologize and appreciate your continued support of MSOE.
Frequently Asked Questions
I received an email/postcard/phone call from a company asking for my personal information and said they were working with MSOE.  Is this a legitimate project or is it a scam?
It’s legit! We have partnered with PCI (also known as Publishing Concepts) to produce our new alumni directory. PCI is a family-owned business based in Dallas, Texas that has published directories for educational institutions, fraternities, sororities and military organizations across the nation for almost 100 years. Their former clients include Purdue University, LSU and St. John's University. This project allows MSOE to obtain important updates so we can better serve our alumni.
This is not a fundraising project.
You do have an opportunity to buy the alumni directory and MSOE apparel,
but you are not required to purchase anything in order to participate.
Does the MSOE benefit from this at all?
Yes, in a few different ways:
Updated Information – allows us to effectively communicate with and engage alumni
Legacy – preserves the history of our University
Revenue – generates non-dues revenue for alumni programs
Pride – wearing apparel shows support and love for our University
How do I know my information will only be used for directory purposes?
PCI is committed to protecting your information. The names, addresses and information provided to PCI for publication in the Directory will be held confidential by PCI, except to the extent that they are utilized in, or in the preparation of, the Directory and except as required by court order or law. Upon completion of the project, PCI will redact PII (Personal Identifiable information) from any and all electronic files that we have supplied or were produced by PCI in connection with the production of the directory.
I would like to verify or update my information. How may I do this?
If you received a postcard or an email with a telephone number, you may call the number to speak with a representative from the Directory project. They will verify the information we have on file for you and make any updates where needed.
If you received an email with an embedded link, simply click the link to go to the online site to review your information.
Can I choose what information prints in the directory?
When you call to update your information, you can tell the representative if you prefer any of your information to be excluded. You can also communicate your preferences to PCI’s customer service helpdesk at 1-800-982-1590, via email at
customerservice@publishingconcepts.com
or by contacting MSOE Alumni Relations at
alumni@msoe.edu
Can anyone purchase a directory?
The Milwaukee School of Engineering Alumni Directory is available for sale to MSOE alumni only. **You will be listed in the directory whether you decide to purchase a copy or not.
When will I receive my directory?
The total duration of the directory project from initial outreach to alumni to directory release is about 12 months.
I ordered a directory/package over the phone and would like to cancel my order. How do I do this?
Contact PCI’s customer service helpdesk at 1-800-982-1590 or via email at
customerservice@publishingconcepts.com
and they will take care of this for you.
Alumni Relations
414-277-4523
alumni@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo