Rebecca Seidel ’93 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Rebecca Seidel ’93
Rebecca Seidel ’93
Growing up in central Wisconsin, Rebecca Seidel ’93 spent a lot of time working with her father. “He loved to take things apart, tinker with them and put them back together. I was inquisitive and curious, and learned so much from him.” This was where her interest in math, science and chemistry started to manifest. When she started looking at colleges, she saw a tear-off flyer about MSOE in her guidance counselor’s office and tore off the information tab, literally taking her future into her own hands.
“When I visited MSOE, I felt welcome. It was just a great environment that was full of science and like-minded people who wanted to spend their days thinking about engineering.”
Rebecca enrolled in the electrical engineering program and stayed engaged both inside and outside the classroom. Her support network included connections she made with her volleyball teammates and her mentors. Through them, she found camaraderie and a sense of community on campus.
While challenging, she found MSOE’s curriculum helped build the foundation to her success. “The coursework was structured in a way that I felt was conducive to learning and bringing people together. It was less about being book smart and more about understanding how to apply things in the real world.”
Rebecca is thankful for the internship opportunities facilitated through MSOE, which helped her gain exposure to the business community. As a student she had internships at IBM and McHugh Software, which she attributes to helping set her up for success.
After graduation, Rebecca started her career at National Computer Systems in sales support/business development. She joined Medtronic in 2003 and went on to earn a master’s degree in information technology from Capella University in 2005 while working full-time. After more than 20 years with Medtronic she has held a variety of cross-functional leadership roles with increasing responsibility, and today serves as senior vice president and president of the Cardiac Ablation Solutions Operating Unit.
“I’m a first-generation college grad, so I didn’t know about all the opportunities available for a future career. I felt my engineering background gave me credibility in medical devices and technology, and a foundation that people looked at positively.”
Throughout her tenure at Medtronic, Rebecca has been dedicated to advancing medical technology for healthcare professionals to improve patient care. She also plays a key role in acquiring companies that develop this technology and bring it to life.
“Start-up companies are often focused on early-stage development. Having the opportunity to take early development to scale and serve many patients is incredibly rewarding.”
Rebecca’s team has achieved milestones in broadening the company’s footprint in the electrophysiology market, with the first pulsed field ablation technology for atrial fibrillation to market in the U.S. in 2023 and new innovations still on the horizon. She also oversaw the expansion of treatment for patients in new global markets, including using
cryoballoon
technology to treat over 1 million patients for atrial arrhythmias worldwide.
Rebecca takes pride in her teams’ work and is honored to have mentored many individuals as they navigate paths to success. Alongside her work at Medtronic, she served as a board member for the American Heart Association Twin Cities chapter where she has chaired the Go Red for Women initiative. She advocates for Medtronic’s Empowering EP program, which supports leadership opportunities and mentoring for women in cardiac electrophysiology fellowship.
Looking back, Rebecca has encouraging advice for MSOE students: “It can be tough, but don’t get lost in the day-to-day grind. Know you can take it one day at a time, and you’ll get through it. Your coaches, mentors and teachers are all incredibly supportive. Leverage them and ask for help.”
Rebecca is deeply grateful for her induction into the Wall of Distinction, viewing it as a testament to the foundational skills and values instilled in her by MSOE that shaped her journey. “I was just so happy and proud to be asked. I look forward to finding ways to support and give back to others on campus the way that MSOE supported me.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo