Alumni Spotlight | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Alumni Spotlight
Alumni Spotlight
LaTasha Langdon ’00
Growth doesn't happen in the familiar; it happens at times we feel uncertain. LaTasha “Tasha” Langdon ’00 has built a successful career on the conviction that being uncomfortable, but curious, is the only way to reach the next level.
A proud Milwaukee native and first-generation college graduate, Tasha began her professional journey at MSOE in 1996, combining her passion for problem-solving and strategic thinking by pursuing a degree in business and computer systems.
“The program gave me the best of both worlds—the ability to understand technical systems while also communicating effectively with executives and translating technology into practical business solutions.”
MSOE’s rigorous academic curriculum strengthened these skills by teaching her to adapt quickly under pressure, instilling within her the ability to learn fast and plan. Outside of the classroom, Tasha thrived as a member of MSOE’s National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) chapter. “Through NSBE, I grew as a leader and strengthened my presentation skills in ways that shaped my confidence both professionally and personally. It also gave me lifelong friendships and a deeper sense of community—connections that continue to impact my life today.”
Tasha graduated in 2000 and started her professional career, working in system reliability at Trisept Solutions. From there, she spent nine years at Time Warner Cable refining the art of operational efficiency, where she managed teams of up to 70 people using data-driven strategies to sharpen company performance. Her expertise eventually transitioned into the hospitality and corporate sectors, where she worked with Marcus Hotels and Johnson Controls, directing full life-cycle technology initiatives across multi-site operations. In these roles, her career has been defined by significant cost savings and a 50% reduction in escalations through the implementation of process improvements and optimization.
Since joining Fidelity Information Services (FIS) in 2016, she has progressed from an IT Sr. Project Manager & Sr. Scrum Master, to becoming a Release Train Engineer and Value Stream Agile Coach. Today, she oversees the rhythm of global technology projects and acts as a bridge between complex technical work and big-picture business goals. Leading a diverse network of over 100 professionals across the globe, she identifies potential risks before they become problems and mentors her teams to work more efficiently. By applying the high-pressure problem-solving skills she sharpened at MSOE to a global scale, she has become a master at transforming complex technical processes into streamlined, real-world success.
However, if you were to ask Tasha about her true impact, she’ll tell you it goes far beyond the boardroom. For over twenty years, she has mentored and prepared teens and young adults to make a positive impact in their own lives.  Through practical life strategies and guidance, she empowers them to succeed on their personal and professional journeys. As the president of
Divine Destinies Life Skills, LLC
, she has partnered with schools, programs and organizations throughout Milwaukee to deliver these workshops and resources, including at MSOE since 2021.
“I saw firsthand how access, exposure and life circumstances shaped confidence and belief—not talent or effort. Many teens were being judged by the same finish line, even though they started from very different places. That realization led me to create interactive workshops, tools and games designed to help youth evaluate options, understand consequences and make confident, informed decisions about their future and financial well-being.”
This year, she expanded her impact even further by becoming an author.  In 2026, Tasha published her first book,
The F.U.N.damentals for Youth: A Guide for Parents, Educators, and Mentors
. The book serves as an interactive roadmap, equipping adults with practical tools to guide teens ages 12–17 toward confident, responsible decision-making. By combining mindset coaching with faith-based principles, it transforms essential life skills into clear, actionable habits—empowering the next generation to lead with clarity and purpose. “Growth happens in the moments that stretch you, challenge you and push you beyond what feels easy or familiar.”
Share your stories
We love hearing from our alumni! Send your story to
alumni@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo