Tripp Ahern ’86 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Tripp Ahern ’86
Tripp Ahern ’86
“Nothing worth having or accomplishing comes without a lot of sacrifice and hard work.”
As the fifth generation in a long line of family leadership, John “Tripp” Ahern, III ‘86 has seen firsthand the success that comes from this philosophy. “I grew up the oldest of five siblings in Fond du Lac and my dad was a mechanical contractor, which spurred my interest in engineering and construction.” His father, John E. Ahern, Jr., was president of J. F. Ahern Co., their family-owned mechanical contracting business.
When choosing a school to pursue his degree, he decided on MSOE because of its reputation for the hands-on nature of its curriculum. He began studying mechanical engineering technology and was forever impacted by mentors such as Joe Meloy, MSOE’s men's golf coach of 46 years and Jim
Kreutzman
, an associate professor of mechanical engineering. Tripp also holds dear the friends he made during his student years.
Tripp earned his Associate of Applied Science degree in heating, ventilation and air conditioning in 1985, then graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering technology in 1986. After graduation, he began his career in New York as an estimator and project manager for mechanical contractors. After two years, Tripp returned to Fond du Lac to join the family business at J. F. Ahern as a project manager. This was the beginning of a rise through the ranks, eventually succeeding his father as president in 1994 and CEO in 1997. He became the Chairman of the Board in 2018.
Under Tripp’s leadership, J. F. Ahern has continued to thrive, with the company currently employing 1,800 people. “I’m proud that we have grown our company under a culture of doing great work for our customers by having great people on our team,” he says.
Outside of his duties at J. F. Ahern, Tripp has also been heavily involved in the Fond du Lac community, serving as a board member of several organizations and civic affiliations, such as the Fond du Lac Area Foundation, Fond du Lac Area Association of
Commerce, Community
Education Opportunities and the Hospice Hope Fundraising Committee, among several others. He was also active in both the Mechanical Contractors Association of America and the Associated General Contractors of Wisconsin, served on the Board of Directors for National Exchange Bank & Trust, Murphy Co. and Westphal & Co., and was on the Construction & Engineering Management Advisory Board for UW-Madison.
Tripp’s successful experiences in his career today were shaped by lessons that he’d learned as a student at MSOE. “I learned how to identify and solve problems and to always surround yourself with really smart people.”
J. F. Ahern Co. continues to invest in the potential recognized in MSOE students. Beginning in the early 1980s, the company has provided MSOE scholarships to students pursuing a degree in architectural engineering or construction management with a declared specialty in building mechanical systems. Funds committed to these scholarships have grown steadily over the years.
When it comes to being inducted into the Wall of Distinction, Tripp says it was completely unexpected. “I feel very honored and view the award as a testament to my supportive family and the wonderful people in our company.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo