Matt Burow ‘99 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Matt Burow ‘99
Matt Burow ‘99
“I've always been drawn to the process of bringing ideas to life and building structures, which is what led me to pursue a career in construction management.”
Before Matthew “Matt” Burow ‘99 began his journey at MSOE, he says his parents instilled the core values of God, family and hard work, giving him a strong foundation for future success.
Growing up, his father, an engineer, and mother, a teacher, provided Matt with a supportive environment to pursue his dreams.
“From a young age, I had a keen interest in construction and creating things.”
After graduating from Slinger High School, Matt got his first hands-on experience working for VJS construction the following summer.
“That experience not only equipped me with practical skills, but it fueled my passion for construction.”
Matt chose MSOE because it offered a high job placement rate and had active construction professionals as professors.
He says some of the fondest memories were the lessons he learned from MSOE’s third president Dr. Robert Spitzer. On weekends, Burow, now wife, Jodi, and his teammates on the Men’s basketball team would work on Dr. Spitzer’s farm.
“Dr. Spitzer instilled in us the power of positive thinking. He encouraged us to give everybody the benefit of the doubt. Today, this mindset has been a guiding principle in both my personal and professional life, fostering constructive relationships and positive outcomes.”
Burow says he and his fellow peers also learned the value of hard work. “He taught us while it’s possible to hand things to people, the impact and empowerment of physically doing the work cannot be overstated.”
In 1999, Burow earned his Bachelor of Science in Construction Management from MSOE and in 2004
founded his construction management company, Catalyst.
For almost 20 years,
Catalyst Construction has earned a reputation as one of Wisconsin’s largest church and private school builders, and their construction experience has expanded to include medical offices, retail, senior living, multi-family and special use.
In 2022, Burow partnered with NBA champion Pat Connaughton to co-found Three Leaf Partners, a startup real estate development firm. Three Leaf Partners pairs athletes, business executives and community partners to make a lasting impact on the communities and people they serve through real estate.
His advice to MSOE students “Make the most of the opportunities that MSOE provides. Engage in projects and apply your skills to real-world challenges. Network. Interact with students, faculty from various backgrounds and take advantage of the access to professionals in your future industry. These connections can offer valuable insights and guidance as you navigate your career path.”
Burow says being inducted into MSOE’s Wall of Distinction has been an honor and a testament to the transformative power of his MSOE journey.
“MSOE played a pivotal role in not only helping me persevere but thrive in challenging circumstances.
To be recognized among these other exceptional individuals who’ve passed through its halls is deeply humbling.”
Inductee Speech
Hear what Matt Burow had to say when he was inducted into the Wall of Distinction.
Watch his speech
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo