Scott Hoffmann ’88 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Scott Hoffmann ’88
Scott Hoffmann ’88
“Whether you are a coach or a CEO, you are a leader of people, and you cannot lead if no one wants to follow you.”
Long before he was leading a telecommunications company, Scott Hoffmann ’88 was in the MSOE cafeteria, recruiting players for a fledgling soccer team. His path from student-athlete to tech executive reflects how lessons in leadership, initiative and teamwork shaped his professional career and community service.
Raised in Milwaukee by a hard-working single mother who valued the importance of higher education, Scott’s college journey began at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (UWM). Although he excelled as a student athlete on the men’s soccer team, he didn’t have success studying electrical engineering there. “Between the demands of soccer, working a third-shift job and poor study habits, my grades suffered,” he recalls.
After leaving UWM and doing some soul-searching, he enrolled at MSOE to pursue a degree in electrical engineering. This time, he knew it would be challenging, but he was determined to work hard and make his mother proud. The learning environment at MSOE was what Scott needed to thrive academically. “Having professors in small classrooms who cared for our growth and success really helped me stay focused and overcome my poor study habits.”
During that time, Scott also met his future wife, Ann. Although she was a student at UWM, both fondly remember spending many of their first dates at the MSOE library. “We wanted to be together, but I had to study. She was quite patient and understanding with me.”
Scott also worked a third-shift job to help pay for his education, but soon after, pursuing the engineering field, doors began opening for his career. “I transitioned to an internship and eventually a part-time job working at Wisconsin Bell. The hours were much more conducive to school, and the increased wages helped me pay for tuition.”
Playing soccer also remained important to Scott. While MSOE’s soccer program was still in its infancy, he became a leader on the team helping with recruitment and even organizing practices and filling in as both a player and coach when the head coaches had other professional commitments. Through his leadership the men’s soccer team became very successful, making it to a conference championship his senior year. In 1998 he was inducted into MSOE’s Athletic Hall of Fame and returned as coach after graduation.
“Athletic Director Bob Peterson reached out to me and asked if I would be willing to take on the coaching role at MSOE. I did so for several years after graduation, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It has been great to see the program's growth and success since those early years.”
Professionally, Scott laid the foundation of his engineering career through roles at Wisconsin Bell and Ameritech before becoming director of market technology at Wood County Telephone Company in 1994.
In 1999, he took the leap to lead WIN Technology, a start-up where he was the sole employee. Again, he was presented with the challenge of growing something from essentially nothing. For two years as the only staff member, he got the company through the dot-com bust of the early 2000s, and it has continued to flourish in the 23 years since.
Today, WIN Technology is the only IT services and solutions provider that owns and operates a 20,000-mile fiber network across the upper Midwest. Today Scott serves as the CEO and recognizes the personal development and growth of his employees as the highlight of his time with the company.
After earning his master’s degree in computer science and electrical engineering from Marquette, and his MBA from the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Scott co-founded INDATEL in 2002. Today, the nationwide fiber-optics network provider specializes in delivering high-speed connectivity to rural and underserved markets.
Outside of work, Scott also became a leader and mentor within his community of Eau Claire, WI. He’s served as the chair of the Eau Claire Chamber of Commerce and president of the Chippewa Valley Technical College Foundation. For 25 years, he also served as the commissioner for the American Youth Soccer Organization area league, which served 1,000 kids from ages 4-18 in the area. In addition, he started the middle and high school girls’ soccer program at Eau Claire Regis serving as head coach for 14 years.
Through it all, Scott credits MSOE for instilling a strong work ethic and a commitment to lifelong learning. “Be a lifelong learner. Read or listen to audiobooks, and read widely to learn, understand and gain perspective. Topics such as mindset, interpersonal communications and managing our ego and emotions are topics of training I pass along to my employees.”
He feels humbled to be inducted into the MSOE Wall of Distinction. “To be recognized, amongst so many amazing and successful MSOE graduates, is an incredible honor. It brings me back to those memorable years and has created a reflection point for me on all that has unfolded since, which is due to my education at MSOE.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo