About the Alumni Award Winners | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Alumni Awards
About the Alumni Award Winners
Alumni Award Winners
Q&A with our 2023 Recipients
On Saturday, October 7, four outstanding alumni were honored at a special award presentation during our annual Homecoming weekend. Learn more about this year’s Alumni Award recipients and their career accomplishments.
Outstanding Alumna of the Year:
Dana Guthrie '10
Question:
What are some of the activities you participated in/accomplishments you achieved that contributed to this award?
Answer:
“I worked at Johnson Controls and managed their largest, global software portfolio. I am a multiple patent winner. I left corporate to launch my own investment firm, where we currently have about $13.5M in assets under management (we invest in early-stage start-ups throughout the state of Wisconsin).”
Q:
Do you have any advice for current MSOE students?
A: “Ensure you have school/life balance. While the technical skills are extremely important, so are the personal skills that you learn from managing a budget for a student organization or competing in collegiate athletics.”
Alumnus of the Last Decade:
Dustin Herte '12
Q:
How does it feel to win your award?
A: “Receiving the Alumnus of the Last Decade Award from MSOE is both an honor and a reflection of the dedication I've poured into my career since graduation. The education and experiences I garnered at MSOE were foundational, guiding my pursuits in engineering, science and business. This award serves as a wonderful acknowledgment of the strides I've made in my field, and I'm truly grateful to be recognized by an institution that played such a pivotal role in my growth.”
Q:
While at MSOE, were you involved in any student groups, clubs, organizations or athletics?
A:
“
I was an active member of the MSOE Extreme Club. Engaging with fellow enthusiasts in this club provided a unique outlet and balance to my academic pursuits. It was a great way to connect with like-minded individuals, challenge myself in new ways and create lasting memories that I still cherish.”
Community Builder:
Carly Grant '18
Q: How does it feel to win your award?
A: “I am truly honored and humbled to receive the Community Builder Award. My alma mater and especially the biomolecular engineering community have taught me the importance of grit and perseverance as I moved through my career. Having an unconventional engineering skillset in medical school highlighted the importance of engaging differently minded people in the medical field.”
Q:
What are some of the activities you participated in/accomplishments you achieved that contributed to this award?
A: “I conduct research in autoimmune conditions regarding outcome measures and disease progression such as the effect on their physical mobility and mental health. I’m also devoted to increasing access to care to those who are underserved. I enjoy volunteering at free clinics within the Milwaukee area, presenting to women’s shelters about prevention and screening and promoting advocacy for the National Psoriasis Foundation by serving on the social media committee. I also am passionate about mentoring students interested in pursuing a path in medicine, especially students at MSOE.”
Community Builder:
Chris Schlies ’97, ‘99
Q: Do you have any advice for current MSOE students?
A: “Listen. A good listener will gather more information. That information can then be used to solve whatever problem is at hand.”
Q: What is something fun not a lot of people know about you?
A: “I was a mobile DJ on the weekends. Bars, weddings, parties and school dances. Even some MSOE dances. That business really helped me break out of my shell (and pay for college). My engineering brain took care of the sound and lighting equipment and my love for all types of music did the rest.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo