Clover Barnes ’01  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Clover Barnes ’01
Clover Barnes ’01
Clover Barnes ’01 has a passion for working with the underserved, advocating for those who can’t advocate for themselves and investing her time in improving the community in which she lives so it’s no wonder she chose a career in the medical field serving others.
Clover was born and raised in Milwaukee but moved to the east coast shortly after high school.
Living
outside of Washington, DC she attended both Bowie State and Howard Universities where she earned her biology degree.
“At that time, I wanted to pursue a career in medicine and took the pre-med track of my biology degree.”
In 1998, the death of her grandfather brought her back home to Milwaukee. “I moved back to care for my grandmother.” In that move Clover decided to attend nursing school and chose MSOE to begin that journey.
“I chose MSOE because once accepted, I would be able to have clinical experience across the lifespan in each clinical course. I also loved that the hands-on courses started sophomore year.”
One of her fondest memories, the pinning ceremony right before graduation. “
It was the culmination of my nursing education and was so special to share with my friends, family, faculty, and fellow graduates.”
After earning her Bachelor of Science in Nursing at MSOE, she went to work at the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center with plans to become a nurse practitioner.
“
I started orientation with six other nurses.
I finished orientation faster than my peers and I became a charge nurse before any of them.
I attribute that success to my clinical training at MSOE.”
Barnes went on to earn a Master of Business Administration from University of Phoenix and since then, served in a myriad of health care administration and nursing positions in her career including serving as staff/ charge nurse, pediatric infectious disease home care nurse, clinic coordinator, nursing manager, ambulatory manager and chief operating officer of a Federally Qualified Health Center.
In 2021, she was appointed to the position of senior deputy director of the HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis, STI and TB Administration at the D.C. Department of Health after serving as the bureau chief for Care and Treatment, leading the Washington, D.C. Eligible Metropolitan Area Ryan White Programs and Ending the HIV Epidemic initiative.
Her advice to MSOE students “Think Big!
Use the opportunities you are given for hands on experiences and internships to your best advantage.
Choose places where you would like to work, get hands on experience, and use those opportunities to lay the foundation for your first role after college.”
When chosen as an inductee into MSOE’s Wall of Distinction Barnes said the honor is the culmination of her amazing educational experience at MSOE.
“I truly loved my experience at MSOE. I learned so much and grew as a person into the professional I am today.
I know I wouldn’t be where I am today without MSOE.”
Inductee Speech
Hear what Clover Barnes had to say when she was inducted into the Wall of Distinction.
Watch her speech
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo