Alumni | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Alumni Association
Welcome back! Even though you are no longer on campus, you are an important part of MSOE.
Welcome to the Alumni Association
Welcome back, MSOE alumni! Did you know that when you graduate, you automatically become a member of the MSOE Alumni Association? Explore what it means to be an alumnus and what services and benefits are available to you!
Learn More
LaTasha Langdon ’00
Alumni Spotlight
From leading global technology teams to publishing her debut book, The F.U.N.damentals for Youth, LaTasha Langdon ’00 has transformed the strategic mindset she sharpened at MSOE into a career defined by impact. Discover how this first-generation graduate is channeling her experience into empowering the next generation to embrace uncertainty and lead with purpose.
Read her story
Alumni success stories
Giving Day
﻿
Apr
16
Upcoming Event
Thursday — April 16
Mark your calendar for MSOE Giving Day on April 16, 2026! Our largest fundraising day of the year, supporting students with resources to innovate and shape their future. This is your chance to make a direct impact—one gift at a time.
All Events
Awards & Recognition
Alumni Awards
Nominate an alumnus/a
Wall of Distinction
Alumni Awards
Nominate an alumnus/a
Wall of Distinction
Alumni Association Board
The Alumni Association Board comprises alumni from diverse backgrounds who serve as representatives for the MSOE alumni population and ambassadors for the university.
Learn more
Affinity Groups
Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) Affinity Groups bring together alumni who share common interests or experiences.
Learn More
Stay in touch!
Update Your Contact Info
Follow the Alumni Facebook Page
Follow the Alumni Instagram
Request a Transcript
Submit a Class Note
Read Dimensions Magazine
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo