Alumni Awards | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Alumni Awards
Alumni Awards
MSOE honors alumni for their outstanding achievements in their careers and communities, and who showcase the values of MSOE. Recipients are celebrated and receive their award at a reception and dinner. Alumni can be nominated for the following awards:
Outstanding Alumnus/a of the Year Award
The Outstanding Alumnus/a of the Year is awarded to an alumnus/a who has made a significant advancement, discovery, or impact in their career and/or company, to science, engineering, nursing, mathematics, business, and/or entrepreneurship in the previous two years. This person should distinguish themselves in their field and provide leadership in addressing an important issue in their community while embracing philanthropic values.
2025 Recipient:
Travis Thul '06, Electrical Engineering Technology
Alumni Advocate for Equity and Inclusion Award
The Alumni Advocate for Equity and Inclusion award
is awarded to an alumnus/a who has made a positive and lasting change in their local community, profession, and/or the MSOE community for equity and inclusion. The award recognizes those who overcame cultural diversity norms, removed obstacles, and/or created inclusive opportunities as a student or student group prior to or as an alumnus.
2025 Recipient:
Dr. Joseph Rencis '78, '80, Architectural & Building Construction Engineering Technology
Graduate of the Last Decade Award
The Graduate of the Last Decade is awarded to an alumnus who has achieved accomplishments of significant importance at an early stage of their career, having received their undergraduate degree within the last 10 years. The alumnus will distinguish themselves by being engaged as a volunteer with MSOE or being connected to another non-profit in the community, along with having made substantial progress in his/her career.
2025 Recipient:
Eric Gardner '15, Mechanical Engineering
Athletics Hall of Fame
Inductees to the Athletics Hall of Fame are alumni who, as student-athletes, gave their all to their sport and were leaders during their college careers. These players exuded leadership and sportsmanship, not only recognized by MSOE but many were recognized regionally and nationally. MSOE's Athletic Hall of Fame also recognizes outstanding coaches and other supporters of MSOE's athletic program.
See more MSOE Athletics Hall of Fame details here >
Important Update:
In 2024, the Alumni Association Board transitioned the award timeline to a biennial event. This change will allow us to dedicate more resources and planning to ensure a more impactful and memorable experience for our distinguished alumni. Awards will now have a two-year window for nominations to be submitted.
The Alumni Awards will now take place in the following years:
2027 (nominations open June 1, 2025 - May 31, 2027)
2029 (nominations open June 1, 2027 - May 31, 2029)
2031 (nominations open June 1, 2029 - May 31, 2031)
The 2025 Alumni Awards Ceremony will take place on Friday, October 10. As an alumni award recipient, you can enjoy a day filled with celebration, memories and Raider pride, including:
Lunch with MSOE Faculty and Staff:
Connect with members of your home department and university leaders over lunch on campus.
Student Shadow Experience:
Spend time with a current student from your academic program and see firsthand the continued legacy of innovation and excellence at MSOE.
Alumni Awards Ceremony:
Be formally recognized alongside your fellow honorees. This event is open to all—please invite family, friends, classmates and colleagues to celebrate with you.
Alumni Awards Dinner:
A private dinner in your honor. You are welcome to invite up to 10 guests to join you for this special evening.
In addition to the award activities, you are invited to stay the rest of the weekend to enjoy Homecoming at MSOE, featuring our annual Homecoming festival, Oktoberfest and opportunities to reconnect with the Raider community.
Awards Nomination Form
Nominate an Alumnus/a
Alumni Award Winners Q&A
Learn about the 2023 Recipients of the Alumni Awards through a Q&A
Read more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo