Eric Gardner '15 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Alumni Awards
Eric Gardner '15
Eric Gardner '15
2025 Graduate of the Last Decade
Growing up along the shores of Lake Michigan in Port Washington, Wisconsin, a town with a notable manufacturing history, one might think Eric Gardner ’15 was destined to find purpose and passion working in engineering and competing in the water. He made his destiny a reality at MSOE.
While he already knew he wanted to be an engineer by eighth grade, it was a conversation with MSOE men’s rowing Head Coach Chuck Stollenwerk that would seal his future to study at MSOE. “I already knew of MSOE’s great reputation for a mechanical engineering education, but Chuck encouraged me to try a sport I had no experience in and gave me an opportunity to join his team,” said Gardner.
As a student at MSOE, one of his favorite courses was an Honors Toy Design class. “One of my favorite memories was designing and manufacturing a portable multi-air hockey game called ‘Rink’ with classmate Greg Kucab.” He said the class not only gave him an early glimpse into child development, but the process of designing and producing toys.
Gardner says MSOE also helped him hone his skills in teamwork, both inside and outside the classroom. “Whether rallying my lab group to finish a report, completing our senior design project, or winning races on the river, each depended on effective teamwork. Today these skills have translated well into my professional career, because teamwork is required to develop great products.”
By junior year, Gardner secured his first internship in Rockwell Automation’s motion control business. “This internship allowed me to apply a lot of the lessons from MSOE classes in a real working environment.” It also provided him with an opportunity to secure his future. After graduating from MSOE in 2015, he joined Rockwell’s Leadership Development Program, spending two years traveling across the U.S. and learning different aspects of business.
“It was an amazingly valuable experience that gave me some great connections and tools to use to excel in my career.”
In 2017, he graduated from the Leadership Development Program and went into a mechanical engineering role in new product development for Rockwell’s motion control business. In that role he earned multiple accolades for his patents for new technologies.
Today, he serves as a system responsible engineer, leading a team of ten in the development of a new product for Rockwell’s Independent Cart Technology, which he calls both a challenging but incredibly rewarding experience. He has also stayed connected to his alma mater by serving as an assistant rowing coach for the last five years. “Not many students come to MSOE with the intention of rowing, so seeing students grow to enjoy the sport I love has been incredibly fulfilling.” It was also a way for Gardner to give back to his former coach who gave so much of his time to support Gardner through his undergrad years.
Gardner says he feels honored to be named MSOE’s Graduate of the Last Decade. “This award is a validation of my career accomplishments as well as my choice to give back to MSOE through coaching. I hope my story inspires others to challenge themselves by working hard and trying new things.”
1 / 3
Eric and his wife.
2 / 3
Eric on the men's rowing team in 2014.
3 / 3
Eric pictured with the men's rowing team as assistant coach.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo