Jim Griffin ‘88  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Jim Griffin ‘88
Jim Griffin ‘88
“Refuse to give up. Work hard. Maintain the mindset, I’m not going to fail.”
Straight-forward advice from alumnus James “Jim” Griffin ‘88 to current MSOE students.
A mentality he credits for helping him achieve success he couldn’t have imagined growing up.
Griffin was born in Milwaukee.
He attended catholic private schools for both grade and high school before switching to Wauwatosa East for the last half of high school. Although subjects like math and science made sense to him, he struggled with reading and literacy.
“I had dyslexia, so school was very challenging for me,” said Griffin.
As a result, he was one course short of earning his high school diploma. He started an autobody business to support himself.
Years later, at the age of 24, he earned his GED, but was determined to do more.
His brother was attending MSOE for mechanical engineering at the time, so Jim decided to apply. “I felt like if my brother can do this, why can’t I? I was very driven,” said Griffin.
He enrolled as an electrical engineering technology major. He credits MSOE’s hands-on job ready education for helping him develop a unique set of skills. Both problem-solving and critical thinking skills that he felt he could apply to his work and personal life.
As an older student, Jim balanced working at the shop and classes, but remained focused on earning his degree in order to land a job that would provide for his family.
“What helped me get through is I knew what I wanted.
To develop a unique skillset and work for a small company that I could one day own.”
After graduating from MSOE in 1988 with a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology, Griffin began his path to achieving that dream.
He joined PIC Wire & Cable in 1989 as an outside sales engineer. Soon, the company became a division of The Angelus Corporation. He quickly gained increasing levels of responsibility, culminating in his promotion to president and CEO of the division. Today Griffin is CEO of the company and he and his wife Paulette are owners of The Angelus Corporation.
The couple have five children and reside in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. Jim says being an inductee into MSOE’s Wall of Distinction is a huge honor but even today remains humble about what he’s achieved. “When I got the call, I remember feeling overwhelmed. It’s a huge honor, but I had to ask are you sure you want me?”
Inductee Speech
Hear what Jim Griffin had to say when he was inducted into the Wall of Distinction.
Watch his speech
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo