Affinity Groups | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Affinity Groups
Affinity Groups
Explore and learn more about MSOE's affinity groups.
About MSOE Affinity Groups
Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) Affinity Groups bring together alumni who share common interests or experiences. These groups are organized around professions, special interests, identities, or student organizations, providing members with opportunities for networking, professional and personal growth, lifelong learning, resource sharing and a deeper sense of community.
Affinity Groups are led by dedicated volunteer teams who coordinate events. These gatherings take place on campus or in local communities, allowing members to connect, engage, and support the group's mission while strengthening the MSOE alumni network.
If you are interested in joining an existing group or forming one, please reach out to Adam Fredrick at
fredrick@msoe.edu
.
MSOE Alumni in AI Council
The MSOE AI Alumni Council is dedicated to building a strong community for alumni interested in Artificial Intelligence. Its mission includes promoting professional growth, expanding networks and offering mentorship for alumni and current students. The council focuses on networking opportunities, skill-enhancing sessions, supporting student career development and assisting alumni throughout their careers.
Learn More
MSOE Alumni Amateur Radio Association
The MSOE Alumni Amateur Radio Association promotes the value of amateur radio as a non-commercial communication platform. Its mission includes advancing radio technology, developing technical skills and fostering international goodwill. The association connects MSOE alumni and students, encouraging lifelong engagement with amateur radio while strengthening communication and technical expertise within the community.
Learn More
Friends of MSOE Rowing
Friends of MSOE Rowing are committed to providing essential support to the Milwaukee School of Engineering Men’s and Women’s Varsity Crew Teams, ensuring the sustainability and growth of these programs. Their goal is to enable as many students as possible to experience the sport of rowing by working to boost the visibility of rowing and celebrate the personal, academic and athletic accomplishments of our student rowers.
W. Wallace Cannon Jr. Society
To honor both the memory of W. Wallace Cannon Jr. and commemorate his legacy at the university as its first African American graduate, "The W. Wallace Cannon Jr. Alumni Society” was developed to bring together Black alumni through opportunities to engage with the university socially and professionally and provide a connection between alumni and current students.
Learn More
MSOE Xtreme Club Affinity Group
The MSOE Xtreme Club Affinity Group unites alumni who share a passion for extreme sports and outdoor adventures. Through organized trips, events, and networking opportunities, the group provides meaningful ways for members to connect around their shared interests. By promoting collaboration, personal growth and professional networking, the MSOE Xtreme Club Affinity Group strengthens the alumni community and fosters lasting relationships that reflect the adventurous and innovative spirit of MSOE.
Adam Fredrick
Associate Director of Alumni Relations
(414) 277-7112
fredrick@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo