Awards & Recognition | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Awards & Recognition
Honoring the achievements of MSOE alumni
MSOE's Alumni Awards recognize the outstanding achievements of alumni who have made an impact in their career or community since graduating from our university.
Selection Process and Nominations
To be considered for an alumni award, all individuals need to be nominated or self-nominated. If information is missing from nomination materials, the MSOE Alumni Relations Office will reach out to collect pertinent information.
MSOE employees are ineligible to receive these awards.
An alumnus can only receive a specific award once but can receive multiple awards over their lifetime if nominated. For example, Jane Doe could receive Alumnus of the Year in 2018 and then receive the Community Builder Award in 2023 but they cannot receive either award for a second time. A separate nomination must be submitted for each candidate and award.
Nominators are required to complete the entire nomination form. The more details provided, the better the nomination packet.
Incomplete nominations will not be considered.
To be considered for the current calendar year award, nominations will need to be submitted by May 31. The nomination form is open year-round.
A selection committee reviews each nomination and chooses deserving candidates for these awards. The alumni awards committee is comprised of members of the Alumni Association Board, and selected faculty may be consulted on the nominations as needed.
Awards Nomination Form
Nominate an Alumnus
Alumni Awards
Every other year, MSOE recognizes alumni whose peers have nominated them for their outstanding career achievements.
Learn more
Wall of Distinction
The Wall of Distinction Award is the most prestigious honor an MSOE alumnus can receive. This award is presented to MSOE alumni who have become distinguished in their communities and fields of endeavor.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo