Robert Bettinardi ’82 | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Robert Bettinardi ’82
Robert Bettinardi ’82
Robert Bettinardi ’82 grew up in Evergreen Park, Illinois. His desire to become an engineer and eventually study at MSOE started in high school.
“MSOE was a great choice because of the proximity to my home, and I liked the courses that it offered. I wanted to study mechanical engineering, but about a year into the course I really enjoyed the management side of industrial engineering. It was hands-on learning about the business side and less math.”
Bettinardi said he enjoyed his time on campus and learning from professors who were also working in industry. “Their lessons were more hands-on and less theory, which was a great disposition for me personally.”
After graduation, Bettinardi moved back home to work for his father and eventually took over the family manufacturing business in Tinley Park, Illinois. In 1988, he branched off from the family business to start X-Cel Technologies, which he still owns today.
X-Cel manufactures machined parts for a variety of industries, including transportation, heavy industry, pneumatic/hydraulic manifolds, electrical/mechanical housings, and GPS aviation.
It was through X-Cel that Bettinardi first became involved in golf putter machining.
In 1998, Bettinardi discovered a new method to mill putters from a single block of steel using jeweler-grade machine cutters. This unique innovation led him to branch off from contract work and launch his second company, Bettinardi Golf.
“Bettinardi Golf was born with a passion for golfing and making a product far superior to anything else on the market. With over 100 PGA tour victories and multiple major wins, all is well with both of my companies.”
Bettinardi Golf started producing its own signature honeycomb face milling, providing a flatter and more consistent striking surface.
In 2013, Bettinardi’s son Sam joined the company after graduating from DePaul University with a degree in business management. In 2022, his son became president of Bettinardi Golf and serves in that role today.
“My son has grown the business double digits every year he has been here.”
Over the years, Bettinardi has remained connected to his alma mater through both the President's and Regents’ Golf Outing events, donating putters and other Bettinardi Golf products to the events for over 20 years.
He credits MSOE as a necessary foundation that helped him expand Bettinardi Golf as a company and he’s humbled to be inducted into this year’s Wall of Distinction class.
“I love MSOE. It is a great university and has a great reputation for turning out smart people. Never once have I been regretful about attending. I would recommend the school to all.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo