Daniel J. Moceri ’76  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Alumni
Awards & Recognition
Wall of Distinction
Daniel J. Moceri ’76
Daniel J. Moceri ’76 EET
Growing up in the suburbs of Chicago, Dan Moceri ’76 took an early interest in anything technical. “In high school I earned extra money rebuilding cars and selling them,” he said. He also enjoyed building electronic kits and learning as much as he could about digital technology. When it came time to choose a college, a high school counselor recommended he look at MSOE. After exploring a few different engineering schools, MSOE’s hands-on approach and small, intimate learning environment were what sealed his decision to come to Milwaukee.
As an engineering student, Moceri fell in love with the lab work. He also developed many great relationships serving as a senior resident advisor, even working closely with, and supporting MSOE’s second president, Karl Werwath, the son of MSOE’s founder, Oscar Werwath.
In 1976, Moceri graduated from MSOE with a degree in electrical engineering technology and earned his master’s in management from Northwestern University in 1985. His resume includes serving as the president of Siemens Building Technologies Security Division for North America before becoming co-founder and executive chairman of Convergint, a global systems integrator headquartered in Schaumburg, Illinois. Convergint is recognized as the world’s largest security integrator and has been named to the Companies that Care honor roll each year since 2004 and received numerous other awards and recognition.
Moceri also serves as a partner in Moceri + Roszak, a Chicago-based real estate developer. He credits a lot of his career success to the many skills and fundamentals he learned at MSOE. He continues to engage with the university in hopes of passing some of that success back to MSOE and its students.
In 2013 Moceri joined the MSOE Board of Regents where he served as chairman from 2018–2021 and is currently a member of the Executive Committee. He also established the Daniel J. Moceri Scholarship to support MSOE undergraduate engineering students.
“MSOE is an incredible place. It’s one step in your life-long journey. Supporting this university both strategically and financially is a way to stay thank you to all those great people who helped me achieve this success and help future students so they too can exceed their wildest dreams and achieve a similar level of success.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo