Bold Step Forward | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Bold Step Forward
Taking a Bold Step Forward
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall grand opening celebration!
Join us on Friday, September 13, 2019 as we officially open MSOE's home to the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science. Diercks Hall helps position MSOE at the forefront of artificial intelligence education and next generation technologies.
We hope you can join us for this day-long celebration that includes guest speakers providing insight on the advances in AI and how they will impact virtually every product and service industry. The day will also feature demonstrations, displays and interactive exhibits.
Thursday, Sept. 12, 2019 –
Invitation Required
6 p.m.
Pre-Grand Opening Celebration Dinner
Friday, Sept. 13, 2019 –
Invitation Required
9 a.m.
Official Ribbon Cutting and Remarks:
University Leadership, Dr. Dwight Diercks '90, Esteemed Guests
(Seating
has sold out,
however the ribbon cutting will also be
live streamed
to the
athletic field
and here on the MSOE website)
11 a.m. – Noon, Diercks Hall Auditorium
Keynote Address
:
Jensen Huang
, Founder, President and CEO of NVIDIA
Noon, Direct Supply Innovation and Technology Center
Luncheon
(in partnership with
Direct Supply
)
Friday, Sept. 13, 2019 –
Open to MSOE Community & Guests
Noon – 1 p.m., MSOE Athletic Field
Picnic Lunch for MSOE Community
Visit the
MSOE Athletic Field
to view a
live stream
of the day's events, activities, games and music provided by
91.7 WMSE
. MSOE ID required for lunch.
(in partnership with
Direct Supply
)
1 – 3 p.m., Diercks Hall Auditorium
Two, 50-minute
AI Panel Discussions
(
advance registration required
)
1 – 4 p.m., Diercks Hall Open House & Interactive Sessions
Afternoon Open House
:
Walk through Diercks Hall and view demonstrations, displays and interactive exhibits.
(
advance registration required)
About Jensen Huang
Jensen Huang founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served since its inception as president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors. Starting out in PC graphics, NVIDIA helped build the gaming market into the largest entertainment industry in the world today. Its invention of the GPU in 1999 made possible real-time programmable shading, which defines modern computer graphics, and later revolutionized parallel computing. More recently, GPU deep learning ignited modern AI – the next era of computing – with the GPU acting as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world.
Huang is a recipient of the Dr. Morris Chang Exemplary Leadership Award, and honorary doctorate degrees from Taiwan's National Chiao Tung University and Oregon State University. In 2017, he was named Fortune's Businessperson of the Year. In 2018, Harvard Business Review ranked him No. 2 on its list of the world's 100 best-performing CEOs over the lifetime of their tenure.
Prior to founding NVIDIA, Huang worked at LSI Logic and Advanced Micro Devices. He holds a BSEE degree from Oregon State University and an MSEE degree from Stanford University.
Diercks Hall
The new building is made possible thanks to a generous $34 million gift from MSOE Regent and alumnus Dr. Dwight Diercks ’90 and his wife Dian. Diercks Hall is located at 1025 N. Milwaukee St.
See how far we've come
Dr. Dwight Diercks
"The learning and education at MSOE was a good foundation for me. The focus on the lab work pushes you to get your hands dirty on all projects, whether you’re an engineer or a manager."
Read more
Live Stream the Celebration
Can't join us in person? We'll be streaming the ribbon cutting ceremony, keynote address and AI panels online beginning at 9 a.m.!
Tune in
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo