How the Meal Plans Work | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Meal Plans and Dining Options
How the Meal Plans Work
How the Meal Plans Work
Frequently asked questions about the MSOE meal plans.
Visit the MSOE Dining Services website to see meal plan options as well as nutrition information.
Do I have to take a meal plan if I live in the residence halls?
All students living in the residence halls or completing their two-year residency requirement are automatically assigned a meal plan. Students who have completed the residency requirement may opt out of the meal plan before the start of the academic year. Meal plans cannot be canceled mid-year.
Do I have to take a meal plan if I live in the Grohmann Tower or JVT?
All students living in the residence halls or completing their two-year residency requirement are automatically assigned a meal plan. Students who have completed the residency requirement may opt out of the meal plan before the start of the academic year. Meal plans cannot be canceled mid-year.
How do I sign up for a Resident Meal Plan?
Students living in the residence halls will automatically be enrolled in the meal plan upon completing the Housing Application. Students who have completed the residency requirement may opt out of the meal plan before the start of the academic year. Meal plans cannot be canceled mid-year.
How do I select my meal or block plan if I am not a resident?
Commuter students, exempt students, faculty members, and staff members can select and purchase block plans in
myMSOE
.
How do I add a meal plan after the semester has started?
Block Plans can be purchased at any time throughout the academic year.
How do I know how many meals I have left on my block plan?
Meal plan balances can be viewed in the
WebCard Center
or
GET.
Can I share my meal plan with someone else?
No, meal plans are for individual use only.  Students who wish to purchase food for a friend, family member, or guest should pay at the register.
What happens if I do not eat daily during the term for my meal plan or do not use all of my meals for a block plan?
Meal and block plans are active for the academic year from purchase through the last day of the spring semester. No refunds will be given for unused days or unused blocks.
Where can I use my meal plan?
In the Spitzer Dining Commons during hours of operation.
What if I have a special dietary need or food allergy?
The Spitzer Dining Commons features an allergen-free area to provide high-quality options and services for individuals who require special diets because of allergies. Talk with the dining staff if you have special dietary needs. Sean Durbin (
Sean.Durbin@sodexo.com
), General Manager for Sodexo, can assist.
What if I withdraw from MSOE and want a meal plan refunded?
Refund and adjustment eligibility is determined by the
Tuition and Fees Refund Policy
. No refunds are given on block plans.
Can Raider Dollars be used in the Spitzer Dining Commons?
Raider dollars can be used for door rates. You can add money to your Raider Dollars balance in the Office of Student Accounts or on the web at
GET
.
Residence Life
+1 (414) 277-7400
living@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo