Rave Guardian | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Campus Safety
Rave Guardian
Rave Guardian
Turn your smartphone into a safety device.
The Milwaukee School of Engineering is giving students, staff, and faculty an added layer of protection with a free mobile app that turns any smartphone into a personal safety device.
By downloading Rave Guardian to a mobile phone, you can invite friends and family — even if they don’t have the Rave Guardian app installed on their phone — to join your network as “guardians.” When needed, users can request one or more of their guardians to “virtually” walk with them on or off campus. During the timed trip, Rave Guardian will share your approximate location and route with your appointed guardian, and they can follow along using GPS. Once you reach your destination, your guardian will know you arrived safely. Should users run into trouble during a trip, they can use the app to call 911 or the MSOE Public Safety Department at the touch of a button — no dialing required — revealing their Rave Guardian profile and real-time location, helping facilitate a quicker emergency response.
Other features include:
Stored medical emergency information:
Users can build an app profile, including any personal and medical information, which can be shared with designated responders.
Submit Information:
Text information, including photos, about suspicious activity or maintenance requests, such as when a light is out on campus, directly to the MSOE Public Safety Department.
Timer:
Set a timer in a few easy steps, and friends and family can watch loved ones walk at night or travel to a new area.
Call directory:
Access other emergency and campus numbers at the push of a button.
Links:
Direct links to various emergency and campus services.
All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to enhance their personal safety by downloading Rave Guardian.
Download Rave Guardian
Download Rave Guardian for iOS
|
Download Rave Guardian for Android
Contact Public Safety
Mellowes Hall
1137 N. Milwaukee Street
(SW Corner of E. Juneau Ave & N. Milwaukee St), Ground Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Emergency:
(414) 277-7159
Non-emergency:
(414) 277-7169
Parking:
(414) 277-7161
Campus Shuttle:
(414) 277-7464
SHIP Service:
(414) 277-SHIP or use
Rave Guardian
app
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo