Virtual Tours | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Our Campus
Virtual Tours
Virtual Tours
Get to know MSOE!
Our virtual tours of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, internships and so much more.
Nicki, a biomedical engineering major at MSOE, along with the Assistant Dean of Residence Life, take you through the brand-new Viets Tower. Viets Tower is a living-learning community that encourages academic success and gives students with similar academic, social and personal interests the opportunity to live together, collaborate and share experiences.
Software engineering student Trevor walks through Diercks Hall, MSOE's state-of-the-art computational science hall that includes an NVIDIA GPU-accelerated AI supercomputer named Rosie.
The Campus Center is where students spend a lot of time studying and relaxing. Tour the Robert Spitzer Dining Commons, Raider Shop, Career Connections Center and more with Tillie, a user experience major.
Nursing student Danielle tours the academic side of the Campus Center, which includes the Ruehlow Nursing Complex; CREATE Institute; Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department; BioMolecular Engineering program; physics and chemistry labs; Raider Center for Academic Success and more.
Women's basketball alumna Britta shows off the beautiful Kern Center, MSOE's health, wellness, fitness and recreation facility.
Construction management student Ayush shares a tour of the Margaret Loock Residence Hall on MSOE's campus.
Actuarial science major John provides a tour of the Direct Supply Innovation and Technology Center at MSOE. It is a repeat winner of one of Milwaukee's coolest office spaces, and offers classroom space for MSOE students.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo