Student Resources  | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Dean of Students
Student Resources
Dean of Students Office – Student Resources
We’re here first and foremost for you—the students of MSOE.
Our mission is to support, advocate for and help you grow throughout your time on campus. Whether you’re facing a challenge, looking for guidance, or just need someone to talk to, we’re here to listen and help you find the resources you need.
We also partner with faculty, staff and families to make sure you’re supported from every angle. Everything we do is centered on care, accountability and personal growth—because we know college is about more than just academics. We approach our work through meaningful relationships and strive to foster a sense of belonging and value for every student.
Our door is always open, and no matter the question or concern, we’ll either help you directly or connect you with someone who can. You’re never alone in figuring things out—we’re with you every step of the way.
Jump to:
Student Persistence
|
Student Conduct
|
Emergency Financial Support
|
Attendance, Hospitalizations and Medical Withdrawal Guidance
|
Student Complaints, Grievances or Grade Appeals
|
Additional Resources
Student Persistence
MSOE’s Dean of Students Office is dedicated to supporting students as they navigate their academic and personal journeys with a focus on reducing barriers that may hinder their progress. Our office provides personalized guidance, support, connection with campus resources, and advocacy to help students address individual needs. Through a collaborative and compassionate approach, we empower students to overcome their challenges, build resiliency and stay on track to achieve their personal and educational goals. By fostering a sense of belonging we work to create a supportive environment where students can not only persist but thrive during their time at MSOE.
Student Conduct
MSOE’s Dean of Students Office is committed to educate our students about community standards and prohibited conduct while promoting student learning and accountability, facilitating the development of thoughtful, responsible and engaged members of our Raider community. We strive to reduce and prevent behavior that undermines academic success and negatively detracts from the education mission of the university. If a student does find themselves in a situation where a potential code of conduct violation has occurred, our conduct proceedings are geared towards educational outcomes rather than punitive consequences.
For additional information please see the following:
Online Student Handbook
Student Code of Conduct
Hazing Policy
Information on our sexual misconduct policy and how to file a report
Emergency Financial Support
During their time at MSOE, students may face financial emergencies due to extenuating circumstances that may prevent them from meeting immediate and essential expenses. Examples of essential experiences include but are not limited to: food, housing, books and supplies, transportation and medical expenses. In these cases, the Dean of Students Office can utilize our Student Persistence Fund to help provide some financial assistance. Funding is limited and may not eliminate the student’s entire financial distress. Financial assistance may not be available for each request.
Click here to learn more
.
Attendance, Hospitalizations and Medical Withdrawal Guidance
MSOE expects students to attend all in person classes. However, we understand that due to unforeseen circumstances a student may need to miss class. If a student must miss class due to illness, injury, family emergency or some other reason, it is the responsibility of the student to notify their instructors of this absence as soon as possible. The Dean of Students Office does not excuse students from classes. Our office does, however, help to communicate with instructors and advocate for students when there are extenuating circumstances that require our assistance. If you will be out of the class for an extended period of time (more than a week), please contact us at
deanofstudents@msoe.edu
.
Our office does support students who are hospitalized during the academic year. If you are currently in the hospital or discharging from the hospital, please reference Navigating Hospitalization for how we can help support you.
In rare cases a student may be faced with serious and unexpected medical situations that may preclude them from being able to function as a student, MSOE allows students to take breaks from enrollment recognized as leaves of absence (LOA). A leave may be voluntary or involuntary. Our office can help students navigate if withdrawing from the semester or taking a break in enrollment might be appropriate. Please see our
Withdrawal from all Classes or Leave of Absence page
for more information.
Student Complaints, Grievances or Grade Appeals
MSOE is committed to providing a quality educational experience for all students. The objective of our student complaint process is to ensure all official student complaints are addressed fairly, appropriately and promptly. The Dean of Students Office can provide guidance, support and advocacy for students looking to resolve concerns. Please see our
Formal Student Complaint Procedures
for more information on how to file a formal complaint.
Students may appeal a final grade they believe was given in error or based on unreasonable departure from previously articulated standards. If you wish to contest a final grade, your first step should be to communicate directly with your instructor. If you are unable to come to a resolution with your instructor, the student may formally appeal the grade in writing to the office of the vice president of academics. See our
academic catalog
for more information.
The Dean of Students Office is here to support and advocate for students, but we cannot change grades or influence the adjustment of student grades.
Counseling Services
Raider Center for Academic Success (RCAS)
Health Services
Student Accessibility Services
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo