Service and Civic Engagement | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Service and Civic Engagement
Service and Civic Engagement
A list of organizations that provide opportunities for both service and civil engagement while studying at MSOE.
Circle K
Circle K International is part of the Kiwanis community and is the college equivalent of Key Club, which is present in many high schools. The service organization does service projects, fundraisers, and other such activities for charitable purposes. Circle K also believes in having strong ties with all chapters, and there are several social events held each year that allow for networking and leadership skill development.
FeelGood
FeelGood is a youth-led movement turning college into a time of effective global action by creating a grilled cheese enterprise! They aim to end hunger by 2030 by being a part of the local and global communities having grilled cheese delis and supporting the surrounding Milwaukee community by having volunteer opportunities at food pantries, donation drives, and sustainability workshops. They believe every person can be important in making a difference worldwide.
Global Brigades
Global Brigades is a dynamic student-led organization committed to empowering communities and creating sustainable change worldwide. Our organization primarily focuses on Central America through its two main groups: the Medical Brigade and the Public Health Brigade.
Habitat for Humanity
Habitat for Humanity (HFH) is an organization with a vision to build a world where everyone has a decent, affordable place to live. Throughout the year, MSOE HFH volunteers at HFH build days and ReStore days, soup kitchens, food pantries, and at various other events! HFH will be having meetings once a month. HFH offers both Professional and Community GE hour opportunities.
Humanitarian Engineering Club at MSOE (HEC-MSOE)
HEC-MSOE is an engineering organization whose mission is to build a better world through engineering projects that empower communities to meet their basic human needs. Our highly skilled volunteers work with communities to find appropriate solutions for their infrastructure needs. With the assistance of engineers in the field, HEC-MSOE students partner with Engineers Without Borders in Guatemala in the design and implementation of their engineering projects, which have included schools, water systems, and vehicle and pedestrian bridges that ensure the rural communities will not be cut off from education, healthcare, and economic development. The majority of each year is spent assessing, designing, planning, and fundraising to support at least one implementation trip generally in the spring.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo