Our Campus | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Our Campus
MSOE Campus
Situated in downtown Milwaukee, the MSOE campus is located in a vibrant and safe urban setting.
Our 23-acre campus is located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee in the safe and vibrant East Town neighborhood. Just blocks from beautiful Lake Michigan, the theatre district, museums, sports and music venues, parks and shopping, MSOE students enjoy all of the excitement and opportunity of the city with a close-knit community feel. For local
restaurant, hotel and entertainment options, check out
visitmilwaukee.org
.
Within walking distance of campus you’ll find:
30 seasonal festivals
17 museums
25 theaters
100+ miles of trails for walking, biking and cycling
Thinking ahead? Milwaukee is a hub to leaders of industry, health care and business - so internships and future career opportunities are always within reach.
Explore MSOE's campus before visiting in person. Use our interactive map to visit out buildings, see our athletic facilities and check out the Milwaukee neighborhoods that we call home!
Virtual Tours
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tours of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situation just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district and so much more.
1 / 28
The center of social life at MSOE, students meet up in the Campus Center to chat, play games, or eat at the new dining commons.
2 / 28
Equipped with state-of-the-art software, the Johnson Controls Software Development Laboratory allows computer and software engineering students to design products for companies like Johnson Controls.
3 / 28
MSOE’s state-of-the-art BioMolecular Engineering Laboratory Suite includes a wet biotechnology lab, senior design lab, dry instrumentation lab and BSL-II cell culture facility.
4 / 28
The Ruehlow Nursing Complex, home to the School of Nursing’s classrooms, labs and faculty offices, is a technology-rich experiential learning space with four simulated hospital rooms connected by a central nurses station, similar to a hospital intensive care unit.
5 / 28
The Campus Center is a great resource for students—whether they are looking for a place to study between classes or grab a bite to eat.
6 / 28
Students in front of the Margaret Loock residence hall.
7 / 28
Also known as the “CC,” the Campus Center contains many student support services, classrooms, academic department and administrative offices. The new Robert Spitzer Dining Commons opened in fall of 2020.
8 / 28
An artificial intelligence education and next generation technology hub, MSOE’s new cornerstone facility, the Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall, opened in the fall of 2019.
9 / 28
Business and software engineering students complete much of their lab work in the Gene Carter Apple Technologies Learning Suite. The suite features iMac computers, iTouch mobile devices, iPads and Apple TV digital streaming technology, along with moveable tables and chairs for small-group collaboration.
10 / 28
Werwath Mall is the connecting point between the library, engineering center and science buildings.
11 / 28
The Fred Loock Engineering Center includes numerous laboratories for electrical, mechanical, industrial engineering  courses.
12 / 28
Students can pursue creative technical projects in the MSOE Makers Lab. Equipment traditionally spread across campus—including soldering stations for assembling circuit boards, an assortment of bench power tools and hand tools, and 3D printers—can all be found in this space.
13 / 28
There’s plenty of space to tinker, test and innovate in MSOE’s extensive, industry-standard engineering labs and facilities.
14 / 28
Considered an “engineer’s playground” the Johnson Controls Environmental Systems Laboratory contains a variety of equipment, including heating and cooling systems, boilers, robotics, CNC machines, a wind tunnel and other systems that students use to get real-world experience.
15 / 28
The Johnson Controls Environmental Systems Laboratory contains robotics systems that students use to get real-world experience.
16 / 28
The Mechanical Engineering department maintains labs focused on materials characterization and testing, manufacturing processes, energy systems, fluid power, electromechanical systems, ergonomics and computer-aided engineering.
17 / 28
Students can gain real-world experience in MSOE’s Johnson Controls Environmental Systems Laboratory, where mechanical, industrial and architectural engineering majors have access to a variety of equipment including a wind tunnel.
18 / 28
Students learn about fluid power and motion control technology in MSOE’s Applied Technology Center, where they have access to a Universal Fluid Power Trainer (UFPT), a modular, smart and unique fluid power and motion control training unit.
19 / 28
The Kern Center is a 210,000-square-foot recreation, athletic, health and wellness facility. It is home to the Athletics Department, Counseling Services, Health Services, Recreational Services, an ice arena, basketball arena, fitness center, field house, recreational running track and wrestling area.
20 / 28
The Kern Center Ice Arena is a great place to take in a NCAA Division III hockey game or get some exercise during open skating hours.
21 / 28
Pamela and Hermann Viets Field is an NCAA Division III competition field for soccer, lacrosse and club sport rugby.
22 / 28
Viets Field is the home field for men's and women's soccer, and lacrosse.
23 / 28
Enjoy an afternoon of kayaking on the Milwaukee River - it's only a block from campus.
24 / 28
The Grohmann Tower apartment building is MSOE’s newest housing option for upperclassmen featuring studio, 1- and 2-bedroom apartments.
25 / 28
Hermann Viets Tower is MSOE's new co-ed residence hall and living-learning community. Viets Tower (formerly Roy W. Johnson Residence Hall) is comprised of 12 floors of double and single rooms and a series of two-story collaboration hubs constructed in a southern-facing, glass enclosed addition overlooking the Milwaukee skyline.
26 / 28
The Grohmann Museum is home to the world’s most comprehensive art collection dedicated to the evolution of human work.
27 / 28
The sculpture garden atop the Grohmann Museum is more than an extension of the Man at Work art collection. The roof is a Green Roof — an energy-saving and environmentally friendly alternative to a conventional rooftop.
28 / 28
The Raider Shop proudly supplies the academic community with textbooks, supplies and tools for the mind, as well as apparel and gifts that show MSOE pride.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo