Title IX | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Sexual Assault Resources
Title IX
MSOE's Title IX Policy & Process
Under Title IX, schools must respond and remedy hostile educational environments. MSOE supports a zero-tolerance policy for gender-based misconduct.
Members of the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) community, including students, faculty, staff,
and other employees, as well as guests and visitors (i.e., third parties), have the right to be free from
sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment and sexual violence.
To read MSOE's full Title IX policy please click on the link below.
A Title IX report of sex discrimination, including sexual misconduct. If you wish to report information to the MSOE Title IX Coordinator, please fill out the report form and include as much detail as possible, including names of persons associated with the alleged incident (e.g., an alleged victim, an alleged perpetrator), nature of the alleged conduct, location of the alleged conduct, date of the alleged conduct, etc.
A Title IX complaint is an oral or written request to MSOE that asks the MSOE Title IX Coordinator to investigate and make a determination about alleged sex discrimination, including sexual misconduct. If you wish to file a written Title IX complaint with MSOE's Title IX Coordinator, please fill out the following form and include as much detail as possible, including names of persons associated with the alleged incident (e.g., an alleged victim, an alleged perpetrator), nature of the alleged conduct, location of the alleged conduct, date of the alleged conduct, etc.
If you need immediate assistance, please contact Public Safety. If you or someone you know has been sexually assaulted, know you are not without help. There are many resources both on and off campus that can help you.
Title IX Complaint Process
The University’s Clery Act Reporting Obligation with Respect to Sexual Misconduct
Clery Act: helps to provide the community with a clear picture of the extent and nature of campus crime, to ensure greater community safety.
All personally identifiable information is kept confidential
Statistical information must be passed along to Public Safety regarding the type of incident and its general location (on-campus or off-campus, in the surrounding area, but no addresses are given) for publication in MSOE’s annual Safety and Fire Safety Report.
Mandated federal reporters on the MSOE campus include all faculty and staff, for example:
Student/conduct affairs personnel
Public Safety personnel, coaches
The athletic director
Residence life staff
Student Activities staff, the Human Resources staff
Advisors to student organizations
Any other official with significant responsibility for student and campus activities.
When a sexual misconduct incident is reported to these MSOE individuals, they are required to report its occurrence to the University’s Title IX Coordinator for Clery Act purposes. The information to be shared includes:
Date, location of the incident, and the Clery crime category
This reporting protects the identity of the victim. Not all sexual misconduct incidents meet the requirements for Clery Act sex offenses.
At MSOE, when mandated reporters and responsible employees learn of a sexual misconduct incident, they must report the incident to the Title IX Coordinator. As such, therefore, the Title IX Coordinator shall serve as the clearinghouse for Clery Act purposes.
View training materials used by MSOE for Title IX staff
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo