Parent and Family | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Event Calendar
MSOE Traditions
Parent and Family
MSOE Parent and Family
Welcome to the Raider Family! Partner with us to help your student have a successful college experience.
We value parents and family members as partners in your student’s success. The Parent and Family Program helps you stay connected to campus and serve as your resource throughout your student’s college career. Whether it’s attending our Homecoming, engaging with our MSOE Proud newsletter or visiting us on campus, there are many ways to stay connected to the MSOE community.
Academic Calendar
Campus Ministry
Commencement
Financial Aid
Residence Life and Housing
Public Safety
Raider Card
Raider Shop
Tutoring/Raider Center for Academic Success
Counseling and Health Services
Parents and families of MSOE freshmen—Join us after freshman move-in day for our Happy (or Not) Cocktail Hour! Whether you're overflowing with excitement for the upcoming adventure or experiencing a hint of bittersweetness, our cocktail hour offers the perfect opportunity to unwind after this milestone day.
Established in 2024, the Parent Leadership Circle recognizes current parents who have donated $1,000 or more to any purpose at MSOE from July 1 to June 30 of each year. By becoming a part of the PLC, you are contributing to the success of all students.
The Parent and Family Fund supports six different areas on campus that impact the student experience. All gifts made to the Parent and Family Fund go directly back to campus and will impact your student while they are at MSOE.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Get Involved
Never miss an update! Subscribe to our parents newsletter, sent out periodically and chock-full of news, celebrations, events and more!
Yes, sign me up!
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo