Student Accessibility Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Student Accessibility Services
Student Accessibility Services
MSOE is committed to providing equal access to all our educational programs. For students with qualified, diagnosed disabilities, we provide accommodations in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.
Eligibility
To qualify for accommodations through Student Accessibility Services (SAS), students must have a documented disability(ies) that substantially limits a major life function that can be mitigated by the use of an accommodation. Qualifying conditions can include but are not limited to, learning disabilities, neurologic conditions, autism, visual or hearing impairments, physical disabilities, auto-immune conditions, traumatic brain injuries, psychiatric conditions, chronic health conditions. Eligibility is determined on a case-by-case basis evaluating the student’s documentation, impact of their disability(ies) and how accommodations might mitigate those impacts.
Required Documentation
Students will be required to submit supporting documentation that verifies the student’s disability(ies) and its impacts. This documentation should be either; completed by a qualified medical professional who can verify the student’s disability(ies) and its impacts and/or an official special education document that outlines the student’s disability(ies) and related needs. Students may submit multiple supporting documents. Students who need a medical provider to verify their condition should download the
Verification of Disability
and provide it to their qualified medical professional to complete on their behalf. Student Accessibility Services will evaluate all documentation and make a determination on if the document is contains sufficient information to proceed or if additional documentation is needed.  All documentation can be submitted via fax at 414-277-7498 or vi email at
moureau@msoe.edu
.
Requesting Accommodations
To get started, students will be required to submit a
SAS Online Intake form
. This form must be completed by the student, but family or support professionals can assist the student in completing this form.  Students must be currently enrolled at MSOE in order to access this form.
Incoming students should
reach out to Angela Moureau
to start the process prior to enrollment.
In addition to the online form, students will be required to submit supporting documentation that verifies their disability(ies) and needs. Once the student’s online intake form and supporting documentation has been received, reviewed, and processed SAS will reach out about next steps. Please note that depending on the time of the year it can take several weeks to review and process eligibility. For students wishing to be approved for accommodations prior to the start of the semester, the online form and documentation should be submitted at least 30 days before the start of the semester students wish to utilize accommodations.
Intake Appointments and Setting Up Accommodation Plans
Some students may require an intake appointment before accommodations can be approved. An intake is an interactive opportunity for students and SAS staff to work together to determine what students needs are and how MSOE can best support them. Intake appointments are scheduled first come, first serve so students are encouraged to complete their online intake form and submit documentation in a timely manner.
Intake appointments can be in person, via MS Teams or via phone depending on where the student lives and the nature of the disability(ies). Students should come prepared to answer questions about their disability(ies), how it impacts them, and strategies or accommodations that have helped to mitigate barriers in the past. Some students may want a family member or guardian to attend the intake appointment with them. Students can include whomever they wish in the intake process. We respect students’ decisions about who to include in this process and understand the valuable insight family members can provide, however, the student should be prepared to provide information and answer questions themselves during the appointment. It is important for the student to be actively engaged in this process.
Students will not be eligible to use any accommodations through SAS until the intake process is completed and the proper paperwork submitted. It can take several days to finalize and coordinate accommodations after an intake is completed. Failure to complete any required paperwork can result in a delay and/or the inability to coordinate an approved accommodation.
All accommodations at MSOE are voluntary. Students are welcome to decline any accommodations they feel won’t be useful to them. We know students’ needs can change during their time at MSOE, so we encourage students to reach out if anything changes regarding their disability(ies) or their impact.
Completion of the Online Intake form, submission of supporting documentation and/or an official diagnosis does not guarantee accommodations requests will be approved. All requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration the students’ disability(ies), how they substantially impact major life activities, and how accommodations can help mitigate those limitations.
Temporary Accommodations
MSOE does provide some temporary accommodations to students who may have temporary needs due to an injury, concussion, or surgery. Students who maybe in need of temporary assistance should reach out to Student Accessibility Services via email at
moureau@msoe.edu
and provide us with information regarding the nature of your request. Student who are requesting temporary accommodations due to an injury or surgery are not required to submit documentation prior to an intake appointment. Documentation may be requested at the discretion of the Student Accessibility Services Staff as appropriate.
Types of Accommodations
MSOE provides a wide range of accommodations and modifications designed to create equal educational access for students without compromising the essential elements of our curriculum.
Accommodations can include but are not limited to:
Glean Audio Note Taking Software
Accessible Classroom locations
Faculty Notifications
Accessible Workstations
Adaptive Technology
Testing Accommodations
Registration Accommodations
Housing Accommodations
Emergency Medical Plans
Parking Accommodations
Student Accessibility Services’ holistic accommodation plans also include connecting MSOE students to valuable resources that can assist them in navigating limitations caused by their disability(ies) during their time at MSOE. Such resources can include:
Raider Center for Academic Success
Success Coaches
Tutoring
Public Safety
Residence Life
Counseling Services
Health Services
Dean of Students Office
Community Providers
Resources for Faculty
Sample syllabus statement:
MSOE is committed to ensuring that our classes and programs are academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions or mental health concerns. Student Accessibility Services provides reasonable accommodations designed to create equal educational access for students without compromising the essential elements of the course. If you have a documented disability and anticipate you may need accommodations, please contact Student Accessibility Services at
moureau@msoe.edu
or 414-277-7281 to discuss eligibility requirements and appropriate accommodations.
Frequently Asked Questions Guide
Guided Lecture Notes Handout
Universal Design for Learning Elements of Good Teaching
Certification of a Disability Form
National Center for College Students with Disabilities Faculty and Instructor Resources
Understanding Asperger Syndrome: A Professor’s Guide
Disability Sensitivity Training Video
For more information or specific questions please contact Angela Moureau in the Student Accessibility Services office at moureau@msoe.edu or 414-277-7281.
Raider Center for Academic Success
Campus Center
1025 North Broadway
Room CC-348
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Call (414) 277-7274 to schedule an appointment.
rcas@msoe.edu
Dan Meiser
– Director of RCAS
Location: CC-348
Cassie Vosters
– Assistant Director of RCAS
Location: CC-348
Michael Hinder
– Coordinator of Tutoring
Location: L-212
Natalie Vang Willis
– Coordinator of Carter Academy
Location: CC-348
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo