Hermann Viets Tower | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Hermann Viets Tower
Hermann Viets Tower
Hermann Viets Tower (VT) accommodates up to 538 students
1121 N. Milwaukee St.
Hermann Viets Tower opened in 2021 and is home to the
Honors Program
and
Carter Academy
living-learning communities. Viets Tower (formerly Roy W. Johnson Residence Hall) comprises 12 residential floors and a series of two-story collaboration hubs constructed in a southern-facing, glass-enclosed addition overlooking the Milwaukee skyline. The $37 million renovation and expansion was completed in 2021 thanks to continuing philanthropic support. The building is named in honor of the late Dr. Hermann Viets, MSOE’s fourth president.
Each floor has a Resident Assistant who leads and plans activities, builds community on the floor, and supports a safe and welcoming living environment.
Each floor includes two community bathrooms and an accessible bathroom.
Modernized rooms and living spaces are designed to serve the diverse needs of all students.
The updated bedrooms include air conditioning units, and flexible furniture allows students to customize their living spaces.
New restrooms and a central study area round out each floor.
All residential rooms include
native wireless routers
; personal routers are prohibited. Students also have access to
Wi-Fi across campus
.
The living-learning communities and collaboration hubs encourage academic success and give students with similar academic, social, and personal interests the opportunity to live together, collaborate, and share experiences.
The
Carter Academy
is one of a kind living-learning community for students to transition successfully into MSOE by gaining confidence in their academic and personal abilities, building a community of support, and gaining the resources for success.
Ask your Admission Counselor if you are interested in the program.
Eligible students will receive an invitation.
The
MSOE Honors Program
is a living-learning community designed to help you enhance your MSOE education with honors-level courses. In the Honors Program, you will explore innovative ideas, build relationships with classmates and key Milwaukee community members, and complete projects that pair engineering skills with a healthy dose of creativity.
Ask your Admission Counselor if you are interested in the program.
Eligible students will receive an invitation.
The
Nursing Living-Learning Community
is designed to strengthen the community of nursing students who feel academically prepared, supported, and connected, increasing their sense of belonging and retention on campus. The nursing LLC will be in Viets beginning in Fall 2026.
1 / 10
A sample room in Viets Tower
2 / 10
Collaboration hubs are shared by two floors
3 / 10
The ground floor features a grab and go area with snacks and beverages for purchase
4 / 10
The COVE, an extension of the CREATE Institute, is on the ground floor. It features the Ladish Co. Entrepreneurial Space and Nelson Prototyping Lab.
5 / 10
Study space on the ground floor.
6 / 10
Students spending time together on their floor.
9 / 10
Take a virtual tour of Viets Tower!
10 / 10
Learn more about the furniture located in the Viets Tower dorms!
Front Desk
(414) 277-7429
Anna Schueth
Community Director, Viets Tower
1121 N Milwaukee St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7494
schueth@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo