Test Schedule Request | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Student Accessibility Services
Test Schedule Request
Test Schedule Request
If your test is being proctored remotely, do not complete this form - please contact your faculty directly to request your extended time accommodation on remote tests.
Exams must be scheduled by 4:00 p.m. a
MINIMUM
of
THREE school days prior
to test day. See chart below:
If your quiz or test is on...
The latest you can submit your schedule request is...
Monday
Previous Wednesday at 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday
Previous Thursday at 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday
Previous Friday at 4:00 p.m.
Thursday
Monday at 4:00 p.m.
Friday
Tuesday at 4:00 p.m.
You are encouraged to submit your scheduled requests as soon as quizzes/tests are announced to avoid the possibility of missing the scheduling deadline.
You will receive a confirmation email for all testing appointments that contains a copy of the information you submitted. Please check to make sure it is accurate. If you have any questions, please contact the testing center at 414-277-7264 or email at
testingcenter@msoe.edu
.
Things to Know:
The Testing Center is open only when testing appointments are scheduled. Standard operating hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
The primary responsibility of the Testing Center is to assist MSOE with meeting legally required needs of students with disabilities. Requests for any other students unable to take classroom tests on the scheduled dates, will be granted as space and staffing allows. The Testing Center is located on the second floor of the Kern Center, Suite K-250. Please check-in at the front desk in that office suite.
*
= required field
Name
*
First
Last
Student ID Number
*
MSOE Email Address
*
Phone Number
*
###
###
####
Test Scheduling
*
Test Scheduling
*
Check ONE box and see its related section below
*
Regularly Scheduled Test
Alternate Date/Time Test
Regularly Scheduled Test
Regularly Scheduled Tests ONLY: Date of Exam (enter the date that the classroom exam is scheduled)
MM
DD
YYYY
Regularly Scheduled Tests ONLY: Start Time of Exam (enter the time that the classroom exam will start)
*NOTE: If you must start your exam early to receive your approved extended time accommodation, please enter the start time you are requesting in the Schedule Conflicts and Additional Information box below.
Alternate Date/Time Test
If you are requesting to schedule an alternate date/time test, you must receive approval from your instructor prior to submitting this form. Please note that your test can only be scheduled in the Testing Center during standard operating hours as space and staffing allows. In the Schedule Conflicts and Additional Information box below, please enter AT LEAST THREE dates and times you are available to take your test.
Schedule Conflicts and Additional Information
Non-Standard Accommodations Requested for this Test (must be SAS-approved already)
Use of Computer for Word Processing
Use of Computer for Text-To-Speech/Math Talk
TC Noise Canceling Headphones
Alternative Format
Touchscreen Keyboard
Digital Screen Magnification
Spam Prevention
*
Please help us prevent spam by using the reCAPTCHA below.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo