MSOE Traditions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Event Calendar
MSOE Traditions
MSOE Traditions
There is always something happening on campus.
Our students study hard and Campus Life makes sure they also have the opportunity to play hard. Campus Life works very closely with registered organizations on campus to plan a number of events and programs throughout the year.
Some of MSOE largest annual student events include:
Welcome Week
– A week filled with fun and informational activities for freshmen and new students to become acquainted with MSOE, meet new friends, find their way around campus and get settled in before classes begin.
Fraternity and Sorority Rush Weeks
– The first three weeks of Fall Quarter are your opportunity to meet the students who make up MSOE’s fraternities and sororities, which offer social, intellectual, professional and philanthropic opportunities, that complement and enhance academics at MSOE.
Homecoming and Family Weekend
– We welcome our entire Raider family—students, alumni, family members—to visit campus and connect with the MSOE community. There are a variety of activities across campus for all to enjoy.
Raider Spirit Week
– The week leading up to the first hockey home opener is celebrated with fun freebies across campus as well as the beloved ‘Crocktoberfest’ event – where students taste and vote on their favorite staff and faculty prepared crock pot recipes.
SUB Zero Days
– Student Union Board (SUB) hosts a week of exciting events for students including sledding, winter themed events, and a Bucks game outing for students each winter quarter.
St. Patrick’s Week
– St. Patrick is the patron saint of engineers, so it is only fitting that every year since the 1930s we have celebrated the holiday with great enthusiasm.
Concinnity
- CONCINNITY is a science-fiction and gaming convention held on MSOE’s campus. Hosted by MAGE - MSOE's science-fiction, gaming, anime' and chess club, Concinnity is an exciting weekend of gaming, guest speakers, living dungeons, steampunk, cos-play and more!
Senior Celebration
– Organized and planned by the students, this annual event is a great opportunity for the graduating class to celebrate the accomplishment that is earning your MSOE degree.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo