Graduation Information | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Graduation Information
Graduation Information
For information about graduation requirements and policies, please visit the appropriate Academic Catalog.
Undergraduate Policies Catalog
Graduate Policies Catalog
Graduation Procedures
Each student must apply for graduation by completing a
Graduation Application
form and submitting it to the Registrar’s Office by the deadline stated below.
For those who submit a
Graduation Application
form by the deadline, the Registrar’s Office, in conjunction with the program director, will do preliminary graduation checks before the end of the first week of the semester in which the students plan to graduate, and notify them via email if additional courses are required.
A student completing graduation requirements by the end of a semester, but who has not submitted a
Graduation Application
form by the above stated deadline, may participate in the commencement exercises with approval of the Registrar's Office.
For questions about MSOE graduation requirements, please contact:
Rebecca Gonwa
for programs in the following departments
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department
Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering Department
Computer Science and Software Engineering Department
Nick Zwieg
for programs in the following departments:
Math Department
Mechanical Engineering Department
Physics and Chemistry Department
Rader School of Business
School of Nursing
Apply for Graduation
The graduation application can be found on
myMSOE
and needs to be completed by the following dates:
Friday, December 19, 2025, for those graduating at the end of the
Fall 2026 term
(December 19, 2026).
Friday, May 15, 2026, for those graduating at the end of the
Spring 2027 term
(May 15, 2027).
Friday, December 18, 2026, for those graduating at the end of the
Fall 2027 term
(December 18, 2027).
Applications received past the deadline must first be granted approval by
Rebecca Gonwa
in the Registrar’s Office in order for candidates to participate in the commencement ceremony.
Graduation Application
Each student must apply for graduation by completing a Graduation Application form and submitting it to the Registrar’s Office.
Complete the Application
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo