Services Offered | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Residence Halls
Services Offered
Services Offered
There are many services available to you in the Residence Halls
Dining Services
All on-campus residents will have access to an unlimited meal plans during their residency requiremetn, allowing them to eat when they want and as much as they wish in
MSOE’s Dining Commons
, located in the Campus Center building. The unlimited meal plan is a robust program; students can enjoy as much or as little as they need to stay healthy and focused without worrying about when and how to dine. Off-campus students have the option to participate through my.msoe.edu.
Two-Year Residency Requirement
During the two-year residency requirement, students who live in one of MSOE’s Residence Halls participate in the unlimited meal plan. Using this plan, students eat in the Dining Commons when they want and as much as they wish during operating hours.
After the Residency Requirement
Students who have met the residency requirement or who live off campus are not required to have a meal plan. These students have a few dining options.
Purchase the unlimited meal plan.
Purchase a block plan.
Purchase meals on-campus as needed.
Choose not to use the meal plan and dining services.
Residence Life Cinema
Residence Life Cinema
is an all-in-one streaming platform available for free to students who access it on the university network. Residence Life Cinema offers up to 1,200 movies and TV series free for students. New movies are added monthly. The platform is also available to student organizations and campus groups. Our agreement allows for groups of up to 50 people to watch a movie or TV show on campus without the need for additional copyright agreements.
Internet
RJ45 ethernet connections are available in each room for access to the Internet and interconnection between rooms for work groups. Beginning in Fall 2026, a
ll residential buildings include
native wireless routers
;
personal routers are prohibited.
Students also have access to
Wi-Fi across campus
.
Laundry
Washers and dryers are located in the basement of Margaret Loock Hall, the basement of Viets Tower, and the fourth floor of Grohmann Tower.  Students do not pay for laundry; it is included in their cost of living on campus. Many JVT apartments include in-unit laundry. JVT residents who are part of the MSOE agreement have access to on-campus laundry.
Parking
MSOE students can park on campus in our Viets Field parking complex. Contact
Public Safety
at (414) 277-7161 for more information about obtaining a
parking pass
.
Raider Plan
The Raider Plan (using one's MSOE ID Card) debit system is used on copiers, vending machines, at the bookstore, the dining facility, the Viets Tower convenience store, and various off-campus locations. The Raider Plan is not the meal plan. More details are available on the
Raider Plan
information page.
Residence Hall Mail
Mail is delivered to the MSOE residence halls each weekday. Packages are received through the U.S. Postal Service, UPS, Amazon and other carriers.
The mail is delivered to a student's mailbox in Margaret Loock Hall and Grohmann Tower. For Viets Tower and Mellowes Hall, the mail is held at the desk for students to pick up.
Packages may be picked up at the building's front desk between 8 a.m. and midnight. Packages not claimed within a reasonable time may be returned to the sender.
Official postal service outgoing letter mail pick-up boxes are located in the lobbies of the MLH, VT and Grohmann Tower. Residents of Mellowes Hall will have mail packages waiting for them at the VT front desk. A
U.S. Post Office
is located at the corner of Jackson and Juneau Streets, about two blocks east of the residence halls.
To ensure prompt delivery of student mail, all correspondence and packages should be addressed as shown below:
Residents of Viets Tower
<NAME>
Viets Tower, <ROOM NUMBER>
1121 N. Milwaukee St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Mellowes Hall
<NAME>
Mellowes Hall, <ROOM NUMBER>
1121 N. Milwaukee St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Margaret Loock Hall
<NAME>
Margaret Loock Hall, <ROOM NUMBER>
324 E. Juneau Ave.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Grohmann Tower
<NAME>
233 E. Juneau Ave., <ROOM NUMBER>
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Juneau Village Towers
Building A
<NAME>
1029 N. Jackson St., <ROOM NUMBER>
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Juneau Village Towers
Building B
<NAME>
1009 N. Jackson St., <ROOM NUMBER>
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residents of Juneau Village Towers
Building C
<NAME>
1129 N. Jackson St., <ROOM NUMBER>
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Residence Life
+1 (414) 277-7400
living@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo