Counseling Services FAQs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Counseling and Health Services
Counseling Services
Counseling Services FAQs
Counseling Services FAQs
What services are provided by MSOE Counseling Services?
We offer individual mental health therapy using a short-term, solution-focused treatment model. In contrast with RCAS and academic advising, Counseling Services focuses on how mental and emotional health issues impact students' academic progress. Walk-in support is available during regular business hours for individuals experiencing a mental health crisis (i.e., suicidal and/or homicidal thoughts, significant disconnect from reality, recent instance of trauma). After-hours support for crises is available through MSOE Public Safety (414-277-7159) or 911. Additionally, we offer several educational programs about mental health around campus throughout the academic year.
How long will it take for me to get my first appointment?
The practitioners at Counseling Services provide therapy services on a first-come, first-served basis, so the wait time is dynamic. Typically, students wait 1- 2 weeks for their first appointment, but this wait may be longer at times of high demand.
How much does it cost?
Counseling Services are available to all enrolled MSOE students free of charge.
Why can't my counselor see me more often?
Counseling Services has no session limit, but to meet the needs of all students who request services, session frequency can vary. Session frequency is typically every 1-3 weeks and is determined based on factors including counselors' availability, student preference, overall demand for services, severity of risk, and treatment goals. Your counselor will help you connect with an external provider if you are looking for more frequent sessions beyond what MSOE can offer.
What are the limits to the services Counseling Services provide?
Counseling Services staff are general practitioners who can support most students with most challenges within our model of treatment. However, your counselor may refer you to seek off-campus outpatient care if your condition requires more specialized treatment and/or a higher level of care.
What should I do if I am experiencing a mental health emergency?
If you are experiencing a mental health crisis or emergency, including in cases where there is intent to hurt yourself or someone else, please contact the Public Safety emergency line (414-277-7159). Public Safety is comprised of trained first responders who are able to include Counseling Services personnel during emergencies when it is identified as an appropriate support.
Can staff and faculty receive services?
Counseling Services does not provide treatment for MSOE faculty and/or staff. However, MSOE employees may consult with Counseling Services if they have general questions about external referrals or they have a concern for a student and need assistance in approaching the situation. If you work for MSOE and know a student you think may benefit from Counseling Services, we encourage you to talk to the student and encourage them to fill out our request form.
What should I do if I need to cancel my appointment?
If you’d like to cancel or reschedule your appointment for any reason, email your counselor directly and/or the Counseling Services email (counseling@msoe.edu). You also can cancel your appointment directly through the Medicat patient portal.
What happens when MSOE goes on break?
Your counselor will work with you to conclude your therapy at or before the end of each semester. Counseling Services is closed for the months of June and July each year.
Can I see the same counselor for my entire time as an MSOE student?
If you have seen a particular counselor in the past, and would like to see them again, please note it on your request form. We do our best to provide continuity of care for students when it is possible.
Are my sessions confidential?
Each counselor at Counseling Services is licensed to practice in Wisconsin, whose statutes dictate complete confidentiality between the counselor and the client. Other than in case of a rare exception (when there is imminent risk to the client or someone else, or in cases of ongoing abuse and/or neglect of vulnerable populations), your conversation(s) within Counseling Services will be kept entirely private.
Counseling Services
(414) 277-7590
counseling@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo