Online Student Handbook | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Dean of Students
Online Student Handbook
Life at MSOE
Online student handbook, policies and procedures and more to ensure your time at MSOE is a positive experience.
Policies and Procedures
Academic Policies
Policies relating to the classroom are found in MSOE's academic
undergraduate
and
graduate
catalogs. You can also find information and policies about disability services at the
Student Accessibility Services website.
Also check out MSOE's policy on our
use of student projects
and
intellectual property
created by students. Sending out surveys for research or a student organization? Find out how with our
Surveys
policy.
Alcohol and Drug Policies
MSOE strives to provide a safe and healthy campus environment for all employees, students and visitors. Review our
Smoking policy
and
MSOE's policy regarding the use and consumption of alcoholic beverages
by students and student groups. Also take a look at our
Drugs and Controlled Substances
policy. The Residence Life Handbook also includes policies on alcohol and drug possession and consumption in the residence halls.
Parental Notification:
The University reserves the right to notify parents/guardians of students who are found to be in violation of institutional policies and/or state statutes regarding underage possession or consumption of drugs or alcoholic beverages.
Behavior Policies
The
Student Code of Conduct
specifies the minimum level of conduct expected of every MSOE student.
Complaints
MSOE seeks to respond to, and to resolve in a timely manner, all complaints by currently enrolled students. A complaint is a written expression of dissatisfaction or formal allegation against the university, its units, its employees (including faculty and staff), and/or its students.  For all campus complaints (academic and non-academic) that the student cannot resolve informally with the parties involved, the student should follow the
Student Complaint Process
. The process includes the instructions, timelines, and official complaint form.
Title IX-Sexual Misconduct
complaints have their own process and is excluded from the procedure above. Furthermore, MSOE intends to provide an environment free from all forms of harassment or intimidation based on protected characteristics. see our
Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination policy
.
Event Planning
Groups and organizations at MSOE may have use of campus facilities at no charge, subject to available space. Check out our
Event Room and Resources Scheduling
policy. Need food for your event? Here's the
Catering and Food Service
policy.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
Milwaukee School of Engineering designates certain student information as public or “Directory Information.” Such information may be disclosed by the university without written consent of the student at the discretion of the institution. Take a look at our
FERPA policy
.
Fundraising for Student Groups
MSOE’s over 100 student groups may, upon formal approval, initiate and/or conduct fundraising activities. Check out the
fundraising policy
, which 1) defines the circumstances under which such activities may be undertaken and 2) provides information regarding how such activities must be conducted and administered.
Information Technology Policies
This policy provides users with clear guidance on the appropriate, safe, and legal way in which they can make use of information and IT equipment at MSOE.  Take a look at the
Acceptable Use policy
and
Campus ID Card
policies. Need to change the name on your IT accounts? See the
Name Change policy
and
request form.
International Student Health Insurance
This policy provides requirements and process for graduate and undergraduate international students studying at MSOE on F-1 or J-1 visas to procure or waive health insurance.
View the MSOE International Student Health Insurance Policy
.
Residence Life Policies
The
Residence Life Handbook
covers policies related to life in MSOE's residence halls.
Religious Activities
MSOE encourages spiritual exploration and moral and ethical formation as desirable components of students’ personal growth and development. On the other hand, the university asserts every individual’s right to make spiritual choices freely, and to form religious associations without coercion or constraint. See our on-campus
Religious Activities policy
.
Student Travel Policies
In order to protect the safety and well being of the institution and its members, MSOE has adopted the following travel policy.
View the MSOE Student Travel Policy
. In addition, view our
driving policy
for university-recognized travel, which addressed students driving for student group travel. Contact Public Safety for the authorization form. Finally, check out our policy on
academic field trips
.
Student Code of Conduct
All students are members of several communities — country, state, city and campus. As such, each student is subject to the conduct codes prescribed by each of these communities.
View Code of Conduct
Residence Life Handbook
Our main priority is to provide a safe and comfortable environment for our residents.
View the handbook
Sexual Misconduct Policy
MSOE supports a zero-tolerance policy for gender-based misconduct.
View the policy
Hazing Policy
MSOE does not tolerate hazing.
View the policy
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo