Classroom Technology and Audio-Visual Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Information Technology
Classroom Technology and Audio-Visual Services
Classroom Technology and Audio-Visual Services
Audio Visual Services supports teaching, learning, and collaboration by providing innovative classroom, presentation, and event technology resources and services to our staff, faculty, and students.
Services include the following:
Classroom & meeting space technology support, including personal instruction about how to operate installed and/or portable AV equipment for classes and small groups
Event technology support for approved campus events, including presentations, conferences, meetings, and performances
AV equipment rentals for classes, meetings, and approved events
Service and repair to AV equipment in classrooms, meetings rooms, and event spaces
New AV installations and upgrades for approved projects and yearly maintenance, based on quarterly classroom reviews & user feedback
Classroom Equipment Checkout
AV services has a variety of equipment available to check out for classroom use, including document cameras, DVD players, and other AV items that are not permanently installed in all classrooms.
All classroom equipment requests must be made at least 72 hours in advance. To make a request, email
Helpdesk@msoe.edu
with the subject AV Services. Please specify what equipment is needed, which building/room, date, and start/end time of the class.
Events
All event technology must be coordinated through
25Live
, MSOE’s event reservation system. Requests for events that occur during normal business hours (Monday-Friday 8am-5pm) must be made at least five days prior to the event. For weekend events, night events, or events that require extensive AV setups, please submit your request at least two weeks in advance. All event technology requests are subject to approval. Event services include:
Setup/tear down of event technology (speaker systems, microphones, projector displays, etc)
Sound and video checks on the day of the event
Option to request an AV technician onsite to kick off and/or operate AV technology during events
Students interested in hosting an event should contact Student Life for guidance in using
25Live
for event coordination, room reservations, and event AV requests.
Reporting AV Issues
In the case of an AV technology issue or malfunction in a classroom, meeting room, or event space, please email the IT Helpdesk (
Helpdesk@msoe.edu)
or call the IT Helpdesk line at (414) 277-7288. We will work to resolve the issue as quickly as possible.
Contact the Help Desk
1025 North Broadway
Campus Center 3rd Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7288
helpdesk@msoe.edu
Help Desk Hours
:
Monday - Thursday:
7:30am - 8:00pm
Friday:
7:30am - 5:00pm
Saturday:
10:00am - 6:00pm
Sunday:
Closed
Summer and Break Help Desk Hours:
Monday - Friday:
8:00am - 4:30pm
Saturday - Sunday:
Closed
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo