Faith-Based Organizations | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Faith-Based Organizations
Faith-Based Organizations
Organizations at MSOE that have a religious, spiritual, faith-based or philosophical focus.
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship (IVCF)
IVCF is an interdenominational group on campus that believes in making a difference on the campus as a faith-based community through all Christian denominations coming together. This is done through Bible studies in which students gather to learn about the gospel and to grow in relationship with God and each other. It is the vision of InterVarsity that the students and faculty would be transformed, the campus renewed, and that world changers would be developed. All are welcome regardless of faith background.
Muslim Student Association (MSA)
Muslim Student Association (MSA) is an organization that allows a safe place for Muslims and non-Muslims to gather, learn, and share ideas about the Islamic culture. It is to provide an anchor for Muslim youth for the challenges they undergo in maintaining their faith. For non-Muslims, it's a great source of education as they meet fellow students who practice Islam, as well as providing information.
Raider Catholic (RC)
Raider Catholic (RC) is a religious student organization that allows Catholics to come together on campus and develop spiritually, intellectually, and socially through faith, fellowship, and service. RC also serves to help others to learn and understand more about the Catholic faith. RC works with the local Family of Five Parishes and the Archdiocese of Milwaukee.
The Point of Grace (TPOG)
TPOG is a Wisconsin Lutheran (WELS) campus ministry group with chapters on 4 college campuses within Milwaukee. They have weekly Bible studies, as well as regular gatherings, which rotate between the college campuses. The gatherings entail a speaker as well as community with the other TPOG chapters. They also have regular events, often with the other chapters, to just hang out and have fun.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo