Raider Success Coaching | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Raider Center for Academic Success
Raider Success Coaching
Raider Success Coaching
Take control of your personal and academic success with the support of professional and peer coaches.
Success Coaching
A Raider Success Coach is a collaborative relationship between a
professional staff member
from the MSOE community and an incoming student to support their transition to the university, recognize and maximize their potential, connect them to MSOE resources, and empower personal accountability in their learning and development. Your coach will work one-on-one with you to achieve your personal and academic goals, such as:
Time management
Procrastination/Motivation
Test preparation
Note-taking and Reading strategies
Study Strategies
Communication with Faculty and Staff
Personal WellTH (well-being & health)
Request a Raider Success meeting
.
Raider Success Ally
A Raider Success Ally is a
current MSOE student
working to support an individual student’s ability to not only survive but thrive at the university.  The Success Ally supports another MSOE student in achieving their stated goals in overcoming hurdles, obstacles, and adversity.  Success Allies share personal knowledge of success strategies.
Success Courses
The Raider Success Courses are designed to support a student in their individual reflection, implementation, and assessment of strategies that help achieve desired goals.  Utilizing tools found in corporate industry, counseling and developmental psychology, the courses aid in personal empowerment on overcoming adversity. Courses may be required as a result of academic performance but enrollment could be considered as a result of advisor/coach referral or personal interest.
RSC 0101 Foundations of Student Success
In taking this course, student work to achieve their goal grades through strategy utilization and individual goal setting.  Instructors teach core components of learning and development to optimize a student’s approach to time management, organization, study habits, and prioritization.  Student will work with one another to identify, implement and asses strategies to leverage academic success.
RSC 0102 Academic Coaching and Support
For students who are looking to bolster their academic confidence and readiness, this course is a great follow up to the RSC 0101 Foundations of Student Success.  Students will reflect, identify and adopt strategies to support their personal and academic goals.  The instructor will help the student examine academic concerns, build a sense of belonging and purpose, and guide them to reach their full academic potential.
RSC 0103 Perspective, Potential and Purpose
During a student’s college tenure, loss of motivation can often result in a lack of clarity for long-term goals and/or academic performance.  In this course, students will examine their values, interests, and priorities to build internal motivation towards their long-term goals.  By exploring MSOE’s Eight Dimensions of Wellness, class participants will leave knowing how to lead a well-balanced, productive.
RSC 0104 Mind, Mood and Movement
Energy is a vital component of learning and productivity.  While pursuing a college degree, students may experience a loss or lack of energy in their progress towards degree completion.  Class participants will explore the Eight Dimensions of Wellness as it related to building energy for the tasks required to maintain healthy habits for long-term goals.
To register for an OR course, use the
Course Scheduler
or contact the Course Coordinator:
Cassie Vosters
.
Raider Center for Academic Success
Campus Center
1025 North Broadway
Room CC-348
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Call (414) 277-7274 to schedule an appointment.
rcas@msoe.edu
Dan Meiser
– Director of RCAS
Location: CC-348
Cassie Vosters
– Assistant Director of RCAS
Location: CC-348
Michael Hinder
– Coordinator of Tutoring
Location: L-212
Natalie Vang Willis
– Coordinator of Carter Academy
Location: CC-348
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo