Fraternity and Sorority Life | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Fraternity and Sorority Life
Fraternity and Sorority Life
Fraternities and Sororities that can be found on MSOE’s campus.
Alpha Omega Epsilon Sorority (A.O.E.)
Alpha Omega Epsilon is a professional and social sorority composed of female and non-binary engineering and technical science students, founded in 1992 at MSOE. Focused on furthering women and nonbinary people in STEM, the sorority's pillars are Friendship, Leadership, and Professionalism.
Kappa Sigma Mu Sorority (KSM)
Kappa Sigma Mu is a local multicultural service sorority founded in 2014. KSM centers around the motto of "open hearts, open minds". We strive to promote multiculturalism and acceptance both at MSOE and in the Milwaukee community through a variety of events and service opportunities!
Lambda Zeta Nu Sorority (LZN)
Lambda Zeta Nu is a local, social sorority founded in 2007 on the values of life-long friendships, healthy lifestyles, philanthropy, and education. Sisters of LZN are dedicated to our philanthropic cause, breast cancer awareness, and the pursuit of academic excellence, while creating a supportive environment in which to showcase outgoing and unique personalities.
Sigma Phi Delta Fraternity (SPD)
Sigma Phi Delta is a professional fraternity exclusively for engineering students. They foster a supportive environment for learning the rigorous demands of engineering in addition to a strong bond of brotherhood that lasts beyond graduation. With thousands of engineering alumni worldwide, SPD's network provides valuable connections for future career opportunities. Additionally, they focus on developing leadership and professional skills to prepare our members for success in their engineering careers.
Triangle Fraternity (TRI)
Triangle is the only men's STEM fraternity experience, open to engineers, architects and scientists. We provide a social experience with a focus on academic success and professional preparation.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo