Campus Life | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Campus Life
Campus Life
Meet new people. Fuel your passion. Get involved.
Campus life at MSOE is as much a part of a student’s life as any class or lab. You will be surrounded by students who are interested in making the most of every academic, social and recreational opportunity they find.
Find Your Place:
Learn more about MSOE’s long standing
traditions
, such as the 144 Goldfish won during Student Union Board’s (SUB) Annual SUB Zero Days Fish Bowl Toss.
Love planning and hosting fun events for you and your peers?
Join SUB
, MSOE programming board and be a part of all the fun:
Have a desire to positively impact campus? Join
Student Government
and be the voice of the student body, impacting over 2500 student voices.
How will you compete as a Raider?
During our
Rotocross time trials
(competitive drone racing), Raiders flew through 19 LED gates!
Learn about how MSOE
stays active
, like filling over 100 Lift Tickets for the Annual MSOE Xtreme Club Blackjack Ski weekend in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
Join the MSOE band, the Sound Engineers, and be part of the 35,681 “Bom bom bom’s” chanted during “Sweet Caroline” at Raider hockey games—Learn more about
the MSOE Music Program
.
MSOE’s World Champion Society of Automotive Engineers
Formula Hybrid car
completed 44 laps—
What record will you beat as a Raider
?
Looking to grow holistically on campus? MSOE features numerous opportunities to get involved with
service and faith based organizations
on campus or in the community.
Love planning and hosting fun events for you and your peers?
Join SUB
, MSOE programming board and be a part of all the fun!
The Dean of Students Office provides students with the support, resources, and referrals they need to succeed at MSOE.
Campus policies, procedures and more for MSOE students.
1 / 5
MSOE students working on the supermileage car.
2 / 5
Student Veterans luncheon
3 / 5
Students studying at night in Viets Tower
4 / 5
Students enjoying live music at a Welcome Week event
5 / 5
Student volunteers at Family Fall Fest
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo