Health Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Counseling and Health Services
Health Services
Health Services
MSOE Health Services and its nurse practitioner offer medical visits on campus, help students navigate the healthcare system, and if needed, will connect MSOE students to outside resources and health care providers.
Note:
In the event of an EMERGENCY or if you need IMMEDIATE MEDICAL CARE, please contact Public Safety at extension 7159 (414-277-7159) for on-campus emergencies or 9-1-1 for off-campus emergencies.
Services Available
MSOE Health Services is prepared to serve our students in any way in which we are capable of doing so.  MSOE provides ongoing support services to meet student’s health needs. Students are encouraged to contact Health Services before going off campus for medical assistance, unless it is urgent and/or an emergency. Appointments are available with a nurse practitioner during business hours. To request an appointment, use this link:
MSOE Health Services Appointment Request Form
Don't think you need an appointment, but have a question? Email
health@msoe.edu
Services are offered at no cost to students. Most often, common health issues can be addressed. Services can include:
Assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of acute, common illness and injury by a certified nurse practitioner (such as: rashes, wounds, eye infections, ear or throat pain, colds/coughs, allergies, skin wounds)
Medication for short-term or acute medical conditions can be prescribed, if medically indicated
Basic wound care
Contraceptive counseling
Mental health review with treatment option discussion
Disease prevention and health promotion education
Information and help locating off-campus medical providers
Information and support regarding health insurance
Maintenance and monitoring of student health records
Cooperation with student's primary care provider for continuity of medical care
MSOE Health Services does not have imaging capabilities (x-ray, CT/MRI, ultrasound). Lab capabilities are limited to point-of care testing (strep, flu, urinalysis, for example) and are done if medically indicated.
Medications for long-term use are not prescribed or managed by MSOE Health Services. Students can meet with the nurse practitioner to discuss their situation, and recommendations can be given to help the student ensure that their health needs are appropriately met.
MSOE Health Services does not write notes to excuse students from attending class. Students should be in good communication with their professors if they feel they should not be attending class in person.
Our Director of Health Services
Jessica Morgan is the Director of Health Services and nurse practitioner on campus. She has been a nurse practitioner for over 19 years, most of which has been in primary care. She really enjoys working with the college-age population and helping students with their health care needs.
Location
Health Services is located in suite 230, on the second floor of the
Kern Center
, 1245 North Broadway
Immunization Information
MSOE does not require vaccinations to attend classes or live on campus. However, students living on campus must be given information regarding meningitis and hepatitis B and attest that such information has been reviewed.
Meningitis and Hepatitis B Info
Immunization Policy
Wisconsin residents: access your immunizations through the
Wisconsin Immunization Registry.
Not from Wisconsin or don't know how to find your vaccine record? Visit
Staying Up to Date with Your Vaccine Records | Adult Vaccines | CDC
Confidentiality
Your student health records, including visits to Health Services regarding your physical or mental health, are confidential. No protected health information is released outside of MSOE without your permission.
Student Health Insurance Resources
MSOE does not offer a student health insurance plan for domestic (U.S.-born) students. MSOE is not able to give a recommendation on where to get insurance or what plan to purchase. However, if a student is needing health insurance, below are resources that may be helpful:
Covering Wisconsin
is a non-profit organization whose mission is to connect Wisconsin residents with health insurance coverage and other programs to support their health. Consider reaching out to them so they can guide you to resources based on your individual situation.
State of Wisconsin Medicaid
See if you qualify for insurance through the state of Wisconsin
ACCESS Wisconsin
Guide to applying for WI health insurance.
If you already have Medicaid from another state, you cannot also be on Wisconsin Medicaid.
Edusure
is a private health insurance marketplace for students. This site will narrow down health insurance options, leaving those that are only available for students.
Federal government health insurance options can be found at
HealthCare.gov
International Students only:
International Student Health Insurance | MSOE
CVS Minute Clinic
Froedtert McKinley FastCare
Aurora Urgent Care - Rivercenter Dr.
Columbia St. Mary's Hospital
Aurora Sinai Emergency Room
Milwaukee ER & Hospital
Madison Medical Affiliates – Cathedral Square
Prospect Medical Commons
Aurora Health Center - Third Ward
Milwaukee Health Department Clinics
Walgreens
Metro Market Pharmacy
CVS Pharmacy
Pick'n Save
Low/No Cost Sexual Health Clinics
Downtown Dental Group
Low-Cost Dental Care Options
Finding Affordable Dental Insurance in Wisconsin
Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin
Aurora Health Care Free Injury Evaluation
Orthopedic Associates of Wisconsin: Virtual Visit
Orthopedic Associates of Wisconsin: OrthoASAP Walk-In Clinic
Midwest Orthopedic Specialty Hospital (MOSH)
MSOE Health Services
Kern Center
1245 N. Broadway
K-230
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7590
health@msoe.edu
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (closed when the university is closed, as well as June & July)
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo