Counseling Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Counseling and Health Services
Counseling Services
Counseling Services
Counseling Services provides a setting in which students may confidentially discuss problems that affect their education goals including decision-making, confidence and identity, interpersonal troubles, and overall concerns
with
emotional well-being. Personal problems, whether they have their origin on or off campus, often deter students from their formal educational objectives. Counseling Services can help students focus on realistic solutions to these and other potential problem areas so students may pursue personal and academic satisfaction and success.
Ready to request an appointment with a counselor? Just fill out the request form.
Resources for seeking counseling and other mental health care off-campus, including in case of a crisis, are available in our resource guide.
Have questions about counseling services at MSOE? View our frequently asked questions page for answers.
Access MSOE's Medicat Patient Portal.
Office Hours
Monday – Friday:
8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
(closed in June and July, and whenever the university is closed)
Our Commitment to Inclusion
MSOE Counseling Services is committed to providing an environment where community members, regardless of racial and ethnic membership, gender, sexual identity, social class, religious affiliation, nationality, and/or disability status, are provided with services and programs that are inclusive and allow for self-expression through providing a safe place to be heard and accepted.
How to Connect with a Therapist
Apps for Mental Health and Wellness
NAMI Southeast Wisconsin
Active Minds - How to Offer Help to a Friend
JED Foundation Resources for Mental Health in College
Counseling Services
(414) 277-7590
counseling@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo