Meal Plans and Dining Options | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Meal Plans and Dining Options
Meal Plans & Dining Options
The Robert Spitzer Dining Commons is the residential dining facility on campus where students can use their meal plans.
Located on the third floor of the Campus Center, the Robert Spitzer Dining Commons features a variety of dining options for the entire MSOE campus community.
All dining inquiries can be directed to Sean Durbin (Sean.Durbin@sodexo.com).
Visit the MSOE Dining Services website to see meal plan options as well as nutrition information.
Hours
The Dining Commons is open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner on weekdays and brunch and dinner on weekends during the academic year.
On-Campus Student Meal Plans
Students who live on campus have access to a meal plan program, allowing them to stay healthy and focused without worrying about when and how to dine.
First-Year and Second-Year Students
First-year and second-year students must have the meal plan as part of their residency requirement.
Upper-Division Students
Students who have completed their residency requirement or are in their third year and beyond have access to three options: 1) the meal plan, 2) a
block plan
, or 3) they can opt out. Students who opt out of a meal plan can still purchase one meal at a time. All requests to opt out must be received before the start of the academic year. Students cannot cancel their meal plan mid-year.
Faculty, Staff, and Commuter Meal Plans
Faculty, staff, and commuter students can purchase a
block plan
. Those who choose not to purchase a block plan can still purchase one meal at a time at the register.
About Spitzer Dining Commons
The space, which opened in the Fall of 2020, meets students' expectations for healthy eating. Dining helps nourish the body and soul. Named after the third president of MSOE, the dining commons offers a pleasant experience in a bright and inviting space designed to support student programming and collaboration. Thank you to our alumni, friends, and corporate partners who funded this campus improvement.
Find specific cost information and details of the MSOE meal plans
Find specific information to best use the meal plan that you purchase
Learn more about MSOE's dining commons, located on the third floor of the Campus Center
General Dining Inquiries
MSOEdining@sodexo.com
Catering Inquiries
MSOEcatering@sodexo.com
Catertrax will be available soon.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo