Cultural Organizations | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Cultural Organizations
Cultural Organizations
Organizations at MSOE that represent diverse interest groups across campus.
Asian American Student Union (AASU)
MSOE AASU strives to create a welcoming and inclusive environment in which students of Asian descent, but not limited to, can come together, feel safe and included through a community of friendly peers. The purpose of AASU is to provide a space where students can collectively share experiences and develop a deeper understanding of their own histories, identities and help bridge the gap to strengthen the ties between the Asian community and all the multicultural groups on campus through educational workshops, social events, networking, and community building among students. As a community, AASU seeks to create awareness of what it means to be an AAPI student at MSOE.
International Student Association (ISA)
ISA promotes the international spirit among students and strive to increase cultural awareness and educate others on the different cultures from around the world. They organize events to celebrate international festivals, try global food, and promote intercultural friendships among all students, faculty and staff. In addition, ISA also encourages and supports incoming international students in their transition to college.
Kapamilya Pinoy Association (KPA)
Kapamilya Pinoy Association is created to unite Filipinos, Filipino Americans, and those of non-Filipino descent through the promotion of Philippine culture in the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) and Milwaukee community.
MSOE Student Veterans Organization
The MSOE Student Veterans Organization is a group of people with military service backgrounds that support one another and the community. Veterans are well-suited to help one another make a successful transition from military to civilian life and support the broader MSOE community in the process.
Muslim Student Association (MSA)
The Muslim Student Association is a welcoming student organization dedicated to building a sense of community for Muslim students and those interested in learning about Islam. Through social events, discussions, and cultural and religious activities MSA aims to create an inclusive environment that promotes understanding, support, and unity on campus.
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
We strive to increase the number of culturally responsible Black Engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. We envision a world in which engineering is a mainstream field in homes and communities of color, and all Black students can see themselves as engineers.
Sexuality and Gender Alliance (SAGA)
The purpose of SAGA is to provide an organization to accept all genders and sexualities. Our mission is to foster a safe environment; build community; educate staff, students, and faculty on LGBTQIA+ topics; and create a sense of belonging at MSOE.
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
The student chapter of SHPE promotes academic excellence and career development. This professional-student structure provides for the continued enhancement of skills and opportunities, supporting them as they grow from novice to expert, role model to mentor. SHPE enjoys a strong, but independent, network of professionals and students throughout the nation.
Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
MSOE SWE strives to provide members and partners with valuable programs and networking opportunities. We want to inspire women and young girls to achieve their full potential as engineers and leaders and help them as they seek to be their authentic selves in all stages of their careers and lives.
Women in Construction
A community for women studying and interested in the construction industry to support each other, learn with each other, and grow together.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo