Faculty and Staff Resources | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Dean of Students
Faculty and Staff Resources
Dean of Students Office – Faculty and Staff Resources
At MSOE, the Dean of Students Office is dedicated not only to fostering student well-being but also supporting the faculty and staff who play a critical role in our students’ success. We understand that navigating student concerns can be complex, and we’re here to help.
Whether you have questions about student behavior, need clarification on university policies, or are looking for guidance in addressing a challenging situation, our team is a resource for you. We also welcome the opportunity to consult on proactive strategies and best practices that promote student success, well-being and a culture of care across campus.
No matter the need, we’re here to partner with you in creating a positive, supportive learning environment for all students.
Accommodations for Life Events
Faculty are authorized to grant accommodations such as excused absences, make-up work or extensions due to unforeseen life circumstances, emergencies, religious observations or personal needs. These requests are not approved by the Dean of Students Office. Students are encouraged to reach out to their instructors to discuss these requests on an individual basis.
Instructors are encouraged to take the following factors into consideration when considering these requests:
Is the request reasonable, timely and appropriate?
Will granting this request compromise the integrity of this course?
Has the student’s attendance and participation up to this point proven the student has the ability to do the work?
If the student will be out of classes for an extended period of time or their extenuating circumstances are such that other university officials should be aware, please contact
deanofstudents@msoe.edu
.
Managing Disruptive Behavior in the Classroom
Students are expected to display appropriate behaviors outlined in the student
code of conduct
, community standards and all university policies. Disruptive, offensive, unsafe or inappropriate behaviors that interfere with the learning environment of other students will not be tolerated. Instructors are responsible for setting and enforcing standards for appropriate classroom behavior and enforcing the policies and expectations of the university.
If a student fails to comply and continues to display prohibited behaviors, faculty have the authority to ask the student to leave the classroom environment. If the student refuses to leave, faculty can contact public safety to request assistance removing the student.
How to Discuss an Academic Concern with a Student
If there is an academic concern with one of your students, we recommend that you address that individually with your student during office hours or before/after class. Faculty are encouraged to have these conversations before it may be too late for the student to make meaningful changes in your course. Be conscious that your student may or may not realize there is a concern. College expectations can be drastically different than high school and some students may not be aware they are not meeting your expectations. Approach the conversation with concern for the student and a focus on learning opposed to just the grades.
Work together with your student to develop a plan for how the student can resolve the concern. Remind them to use your office hours as well as other campus resources such as the
Raider Center for Academic Success (RCAS)
.
Assisting and Supporting Individuals in Distress
Students who are dealing with personal concerns can often show outward signs that they are struggling. If you see a student who is experiencing distress, it is important to show empathy and support. It is okay for faculty to engage students who are in distress. If possible, try to talk to the student in a private space where you can both speak freely. Let the student know what you have seen or heard that leads you to believe they may be in distress.
For more suggestions on working with distressed students, visit our Mental Health and Wellness Handbook on
myMSOE
.
When to Send in an Early Alert
We encourage faculty and staff to address concerns directly with students whenever possible. If this is not possible or your intervention does not satisfactorily resolve the problem, please use the
Early Alert form
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo