Campus Buildings | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Our Campus
Campus Buildings
Buildings on MSOE Campus
Inside information on the various buildings that make up MSOE's campus.
MSOE has a wide variety of buildings across campus.  Find out more information about their histories, what they are currently used for and what they look like to help navigating around campus.
Jump to:
Allen-Bradley Hall of Science and Fred Loock Engineering Center
|
Alumni Center
|
Campus Center
|
Diercks Computational Science Hall
|
German-English Academy
|
Grohmann Museum
|
Grohmann Tower
|
Humphrey House
|
Kern Center
|
Krueger Hall
|
Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music
|
Residence Halls
|
Rosenberg Hall
|
Viets Field
|
Walter Schroeder Library
Allen-Bradley Hall of Science and Fred Loock Engineering Center
432 E. Kilbourn Ave.
The Allen-Bradley Hall of Science (also known as the Science Building) and the Fred Loock Engineering Center are home to classrooms and more than 40 state-of-the-art laboratories. Acquired in 1958, the Allen-Bradley Hall of Science was renovated to reflect contemporary design, with an aluminum and glass exterior. It was dedicated in 1960. In 1967, the Fred Loock
Engineering Center was added to the MSOE campus. Designed by architect Fitzhugh Scott, the sculptured brick building features applied tile facing, recessed windows, and a succession of curved forms on the Milwaukee Street facade that follow the contour of the test cells inside. Much of the education and research conducted by faculty, staff and students happens in this building, home to many labs, classrooms, faculty and department offices and other resources.
In these buildings:
Alvin and Marion Birnschein Laboratory
Applied Technology Center
Construction Science and Engineering Center
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department
Fluid Power Institute
TM
Gov. Warren P. Knowles Laboratories
Harley-Davidson/Lee Georgeson Design Laboratory
High Impact Materials and Structures Center
Johnson Controls Building Environmental Systems Laboratory
Mechanical Engineering Department
Physics and Chemistry Department
Alumni Center
1120 N. Broadway
The Alumni Center is a focal point for a wide variety of alumni-related activities and the place where visiting alumni gather to participate in the camaraderie always present at MSOE. The
Office of University Advancement
is also located in this building. This historic building was added to the MSOE campus in 1989. It was originally built in 1890 by Emil and Valentin Blatz as the headquarters for the Blatz Brewing Co. business offices. In the 1980s it was refurbished as the Beer Baron Restaurant, which operated for five years. This architectural masterpiece is recognized as a historical treasure by the National Register of Historic Places. Great care has been taken to preserve the unique features of this building, which include hand carved fireplace mantels, hardwood floors and oak beams.
Campus Center
1025 N. Broadway
The Campus Center is the center of social life at MSOE. Students meet up in the Campus Center to chat, play games, shoot pool or eat at the Spitzer Dining Commons. The “CC Building” also contains many student support services, classrooms, academic department and administrative offices, the Welcome Center and more throughout its five floors.
Some facilities and departments in this building are:
Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management Department
CREATE Institute
MSOE Raider Shop
IT Helpdesk
Robert Spitzer Dining Commons
Student organization offices
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering laboratories
MSOE School of Nursing / Ruehlow Nursing Complex
Administrative offices (Registrar, Student Accounts, Student Life, Career Connections Center, Admission Office (undergraduate and graduate), IT, Financial Aid Office, President’s Office, V.P. of Academics Office, Finance, Human Resources)
Diercks Computational Science Hall
1025 N. Milwaukee St.
The
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
is a 64,000 square foot cornerstone facility that will position MSOE at the forefront of artificial intelligence education and next generation technologies.
Inside, the new building provides modern classrooms, innovative laboratories, an auditorium, and spaces to support companies who partner with MSOE.
A major feature of the facility is the state of the art datacenter which is home to MSOE's GPU-accelerated supercomputer. Students, faculty and staff, and business across industries are invited to collaborate with MSOE to benefit from this tremendous asset to the region.
German-English Academy/Direct Supply Innovation and Technology Center
1020 N. Broadway
The German-English Academy building was built in 1890 to provide instruction in German and English and originally was a three-story cream city brick building with 12 rooms. In 1892, a second building was constructed immediately north of the original to house the North American Gymnastics Union. By 1907 the German-English Academy purchased this second building and joined the two. Over the years, the building housed University School of Milwaukee and Klode Furniture and MSOE purchased it in 1932. MSOE sold the building in 1980 to a developer who renovated the interior and sold it. MSOE permanently re-acquired the German-English Academy again in 2009 when Dr. Eckhart Grohmann donated it to the university. Today
Direct Supply Inc
. leases the entire building for the
Direct Supply Innovation and Technology Center
at MSOE.
Grohmann Museum
1000 N. Broadway
The Grohmann Museum
is home to the world’s most comprehensive art collection dedicated to the evolution of human work. The collection comprises more than 1,700 European and American paintings and sculptures from 1580 to the present. They reflect a variety of artistic styles and subjects that document organized work. The museum has three floors of galleries as well as a spectacular rooftop sculpture garden.
The museum opened in 2007 and is named in honor of Dr. Eckhart Grohmann, an MSOE Regent, Milwaukee businessman and avid art collector who donated his collection to MSOE in 2001 and subsequently the funds to purchase, renovate and operate the museum. The museum is also home to the
Humanities, Social Science and Communication Department
and has a number of classrooms.
Grohmann Tower
233 E. Juneau Avenue
The Grohmann Tower apartment building is MSOE’s newest housing option for upperclassmen featuring studio, 1- and 2-bedroom apartments. Currently open to all juniors, seniors and international students on a first-come, first-served basis, Grohmann Tower apartments come fully furnished and include all utilities (heat, air conditioning, electricity and water) as well as a full kitchen, bathroom and breathtaking views of Milwaukee!
Humphrey House
1200 N. Broadway
This three-story, Queen-Anne style house made of cream-city brick was built in 1894 as the parsonage for Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church, located across the street. MSOE purchased the building in 1996 through a grant from the Glenn and Gertrude Humphrey Foundation. Glenn Humphrey was a Milwaukee entrepreneur who by the early 1960s owned the largest General Motors dealership in the country.
Kern Center
1245 N. Broadway
The
Kern Center
is a 210,000-square-foot recreation, athletic, health and wellness facility that was dedicated in fall 2004. The center exemplifies MSOE’s philosophy of a well-rounded university experience and is an important asset in attracting prospective students and providing current students with ample access to fitness, whether they are participating in NCAA Division III athletics, intramural sports or individual fitness programs. It is home to the Athletics Department, Counseling Services, Health Services, Recreational Services, an ice arena, basketball arena, fitness center, field house, recreational running track and wrestling area.
The Kern Center is available for community usage and has hosted events from fitness expos to youth sports camps, leagues and tournaments and banquets and career fairs. Facilities, including the ice arena, are available for limited rentals. See Kern Center Facilities for information and photos of our sports, banquet and meeting/expo facilities.
Krueger Hall
820 N. Milwaukee St.
MSOE purchased the building in 1996 with funds from Evelyn Krueger given in memory of her late husband, William, co-founder of what became one of the nation’s largest printing companies, W.A. Krueger Co. Krueger Hall is home to the Rapid Prototyping Center and MSOE’s award-winning radio station WMSE 91.7 FM, well-known as the alternative frontier for Milwaukee music with an eclectic mix. WMSE has served Milwaukee listeners since 1981 and internet listeners from around the world since 2005. There are also classrooms and a student project room in Krueger Hall.
Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music
The Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music is located at 308 E. Juneau Ave. Once a privately-owned residence, the university acquired the property and funds for the renovation thanks to the support of MSOE alumni and friends.
The Patricia E. Kern Conservatory of Music is home to MSOE’s music programs, giving students ample space to pursue their musical passion, cultivate their creativity, and rehearse with their peers.
There are several music ensembles at MSOE including the Concert Band, Jazz Ensemble, String Orchestra, Concert Choir, Pep Band and Jazz Combo.
Residence Halls
The residence halls are located in the heart of campus, with plenty of classmates and friends around. Features include TV lounges, laundry rooms, game rooms and study floors—everything you need to feel at home on campus. For room furnishing information see campus housing.
MARGARET LOOCK RESIDENCE HALL
324 E. Juneau Ave.
Margaret Loock Residence Hall (MLH) was constructed in 1967, and is named after the wife of a former president of Allen-Bradley Co., Fred Loock, who was chairman of the MSOE Board of Regents. Several hundred students call MLH home. The MSOE Public Safety Department also is located here.
HERMANN VIETS TOWER
1121 N. Milwaukee St.
Viets Tower is MSOE’s newest residential facility, completely renovated and re-opened in Fall 2021. It is a living-learning community that encourages academic success and gives students with similar academic, social and personal interests the opportunity to live together, collaborate and share experiences. The building is named in honor of the late Dr. Hermann Viets, MSOE’s fourth president. Originally opened in 1965 as the Roy W. Johnson Residence Hall (RWJ), today’s Viets Tower houses several hundred students and also contains the Housing Office.
MELLOWES RESIDENCE HALL
1137 N. Milwaukee St.
Mellowes Hall (formerly known as Regents Hall) is arranged apartment style with each suite containing bedrooms, a bathroom and a kitchenette as well as the features found in Viets Tower. Regents Hall was built in 1990 as a four-story addition to the original Roy W. Johnson Hall (now Hermann Viets Tower). In 2024, Regents Hall was renovated and renamed Mellowes Hall.
Rosenberg Hall
1235 N. Milwaukee St.
Rosenberg Hall is home to MSOE’s
Rader School of Business
, the
Uihlein/Spitzer Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
(“Innovent Center”), classrooms and laboratories, offices and a study lounge. MSOE has offered business programs since the mid-1950s. The school is named after the late Dr. I. Andrew (“Tiny”) Rader, a longtime MSOE supporter, MSOE Regent Emeritus, former chairman of The Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, and retired chairman and CEO of Allen-Bradley Co. This three-story, 20,000-square-foot building was constructed in 1964 as a school of mortuary science, and has been used by several occupants over the years. It was purchased by MSOE through the generosity of the late Dr. Kenneth Rosenberg ’50 and his wife, Doris, and after a major renovation project, opened for classes in fall 1999.
Viets Field
1305 N. Broadway
Pamela and Hermann Viets Field is an NCAA Division III competition field for soccer, lacrosse and club sport rugby. The field was built on top of a 780-car parking complex and is the first all-LED lit competition field in the United States. On the northern side of the facility, there is a .88 acre public park and 12,000 square feet of retail space. The facility opened in August 2013. Drs. Robert and Patricia Kern provided a majority of the funds to acquire the land on which the facility is located as well as the construction costs.  The
We Energies STEM Center at MSOE
is located at ground-level on the north side of Viets Field.
Walter Schroeder Library
500 E. Kilbourn Ave.
The
Walter Schroeder Library
is a resource for MSOE students, faculty, alumni and businesses, including print and non-print reference materials and computers. The first and second floors house library materials, group study rooms, electronic equipment, reading areas, MSOE Archives and ongoing exhibits. Classrooms and faculty offices are located on the third floor. The library also is home to the world’s largest light bulb!
Dedicated by former U.S. President Gerald Ford (1913-2006) in 1980, the library is named after Walter Schroeder (1878-1967), a Milwaukeean in the insurance, mortgage loan and bond business who later became a hotelier. He built the Astor Hotel and Schroeder Hotel (now Hilton Milwaukee City Center), his pride and joy. Schroeder established the Walter Schroeder Foundation in 1963 for charitable, religious, scientific, testing for public safety, literary or educational purposes.
We Energies STEM Center
1305 N. Broadway
The
We Energies STEM Center at MSOE
is Milwaukee’s premier STEM destination for K-12 students. Created in partnership with We Energies, Rockwell Automation and American Family Insurance, the STEM Center enables students from any school—public, private, charter and homeschool—to have access to hands-on, one-of-a-kind STEM experiences. The 10,000-square-foot STEM Center features a flexible technology studio, design and development lab, machine tooling area, and a FIRST Robotics playing field for teams to practice on a regulation field before they compete. Tools, resources, mentors and inclusive programming offer endless opportunities for Milwaukee’s youth to explore, create and get hooked on STEM.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo