Veteran's Support Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Veteran's Support Services
Veteran’s Support Services
MSOE is proud to offer many resources for current military, veterans, and veteran dependents. MSOE has been designated a 2022-23 Military Friendly® School by VIQTORY Media and has received this designation since 2013.
Student Veterans Organization
The student-led group helps bridge the gap between the military and civilian life by acting as an advocacy group to the administration, a career services utility, and an event planner. The organization is composed of current military, veterans, and veteran dependents. The organization hosts social and service events, informational sessions with VA representatives, hands-on sessions for healthcare enrollment and claim submission, and career service opportunities.
All military members & veterans receiving educational benefits were placed on the contact list for the group and will receive updates and invites. Anyone not receiving benefits who would like to be placed on the contact list should email current group members
Alex Ohde
and
Hunter Moss
. Spouses, faculty and staff are also invited to be added to the email list for updates.
MSOE is proud to offer many resources for our current military service members and veterans. Our Student Veterans Organization (SVO) on campus helps bridge the gap between the military and civilian life.
Note: The above video is intended as a celebration of MSOE students who are veterans and in no way implies that any branches of the U.S. Military officially endorse our programs.
Veterans Lounge
A locked space for military and veteran students to socialize and study. This lounge is in MSOE's business building, Rosenberg Hall (1235 N. Milwaukee St.). In the lounge you will find:
Whiteboards and table for studying
Resources from various military service organizations
Used academic books
T.V., couches, fridge, microwave and coffee pot
Storage space for personal items
Priority Registration
Veterans and current military members will receive priority registration. Students will be moved to one day earlier than their originally scheduled day. Students will only be moved once, so if they are part of another priority group, they will not be moved forward a second time. Vets and military members currently receiving educational benefits will automatically receive priority registration permissions. Veterans or reservists not utilizing benefits will need to drop off a copy of their DD-214 to the Registrar’s Office.
Raider Shop
All current military and veteran students are eligible to receive a 10% discount on all items in the MSOE Raider Shop (excluding text and trade books) by presenting a Military ID.
Tutoring Services & Testing Center
The Raider Center for Academic Success provides MSOE students with free academic support services including individual peer tutoring; student-led interactive study sessions; drop-in centers for math, chemistry, and physics; and sessions on study skills and time management strategies. Tutoring is located in the
Library
and the Testing Center is located in the Kern Center.
Student Accessibility Services
Student Accessibility Services is committed to making MSOE academically accessible to students with documented disabilities (physical or learning), chronic health conditions and mental health conditions. If you have a service related injury or condition, you could potentially be eligible for services. No history of school accommodations required. Accommodations are available for the classroom, mobility around campus, parking and more. To see if you are eligible, please
contact Angela Moureau
or call (414) 277-7281.
Veteran Parking Spots
Thanks to the generosity of a donor, MSOE is pleased to offer two first-come-first served parking spots in the MSOE Broadway Lot. These spots do require the vehicle parking there to have DMV-issued military plates. These plates can be purchased for $15 and the money is sent to the Wisconsin Department of Veteran Affairs for their Veterans Trust Fund. Please visit the
Wisconsin Department of Transportation website
for more details.
Veteran’s Education Benefits
Students wishing to use their Veteran’s Education Benefits through the VA should contact the Financial Aid Office. The Veteran Certifying Officials on MSOE’s campus is located in the Financial Aid Office on the Mezzanine Level of the
Campus Center
(CC-431). For more information contact the Financial Aid Office at 414-277-7223 or
finaid@msoe.edu
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo