Living at MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Living on Campus
After a long day of classes or experiencing the sights in Milwaukee, having a comfortable place to relax is what makes you feel at home when you’re in college.
Jump to:
What We Offer
|
Residency Requirement
|
Residential Experience
What We Offer
MSOE offers four residential facilities
catering to different needs. Information on
housing and meal plan costs
is available to assist with financial planning and decision-making.
We have
professional staff
members who serve as community directors, three third-year or higher students who serve as assistant community directors, 38 second-year or higher students who serve as resident assistants (RAs), and more than 10 residents who serve as office assistants to support front desk operations.
Most first-year students live in Viets Tower or MLH and enjoy a supportive community.
Each floor, or community, typically consists of about 30 to 50 members. All first- and second-year floors include an RA.
Although housing arrangements are typically gender-specific, students can request gender-inclusive housing. Inclusive options accommodate diverse identities, ensuring all students feel supported and comfortable in their living environments.
MLH
features double rooms with two community bathrooms per floor, ideal for those who prefer a quieter atmosphere while still connecting with others in cozy common areas. The floors are gender specific. Community Director
Jason Kauffin
supports this building.
Viets Tower
combines a traditional hall setting with a modern touch. It offers double rooms, community bathrooms, and accessible private bathrooms. A common area links odd and even floors, promoting collaboration. Most floors are co-ed, with gender-specific rooms. Community Director
Anna Schueth
supports this building.
Mellowes Hall
offers suite-style housing with double or single rooms and communal living spaces, appealing to second-year students and beyond. The floors are co-ed, with gender-specific suites. Community Director
Anna Schueth
supports this building.
Grohmann Tower
offers apartment-style living, perfect for students seeking additional space. Most students are assigned to a studio, which typically houses three roommates. The floors are co-ed, with gender-specific apartments. The top four floors are reserved for third-year students and above. Dean of Residence Life
Joshua Mitchell
supports this building.
Juneau Village Towers
are apartments located adjacent to campus that MSOE has contracted with to provide increased housing capacity. Students are assigned to these apartments when demand for on-campus housing exceeds capacity. Community Director
Jason Kauffin
supports this building.
Residency Requirement
At MSOE, we prioritize student success, which is why we have a two-year residency requirement. This requirement helps us ensure that all first- and second-year students have a safe place to live, access to food, opportunities to build relationships with others on campus, and access to
student support services
. Your well-being is important to us, and we want to ensure you feel supported during your time at MSOE.
To qualify for a housing exemption, you must meet one of the following criteria:
Be 21 years or older by the start of the fall semester for the academic year.
Be married by the start of the fall semester for the academic year.
Live within 30 miles of campus with your guardian as your primary residence.
Be a transfer student (international or domestic).
Note:
Exemptions must be requested before the start of the academic year. They cannot be requested mid-year. The housing and meal contract is for the full academic year. Under NCAA rules, student-athletes may not receive special housing privileges, priority placement, exemptions, or exceptions to residential policies based solely on athletic participation.
Residential Experience
Students' current room and meal plan information can be found
on their
myMSOE
student page.
Our goal is to foster a safe and welcoming environment for all first-year students, transfer students, graduate students, and everyone in between. Here, you’ll find a supportive community where you can connect with peers with various backgrounds and interests. While each of you may have unique experiences, what unites you is a shared commitment to academic excellence and success.
Our residential experience offers ample student engagement opportunities, including Living-Learning Communities. MSOE offers three Living-Learning Communities (LLCs) within its residence halls. LLCs enable students to extend their learning beyond the classroom, allowing the university to continue fostering the growth of the
MSOE Mindset.
LLCs create comprehensive learning environments that heighten student engagement with faculty, peers, and their learning.
The
Nursing Living-Learning Community
is a two-year, co-ed program that supports first- and second-year nursing students. Beginning in Fall 2026, the Nursing LLC will join the other LLCs in Viets Tower.
Join the Nursing Living-Learning Community!
The
Carter Academy
is a living-learning community that helps students transition successfully into MSOE by gaining confidence in their academic and personal abilities, building a supportive community, and gaining the resources for success.
Ask your Admission Counselor if you are interested in the program.
Eligible students will receive an invitation.
The
MSOE Honors Program
is a living-learning community that enables students to enhance their MSOE education through honors-level courses. In the Honors Program, students explore innovative ideas, build relationships with classmates and key members of the Milwaukee community, and complete projects that pair engineering skills with a healthy dose of creativity.
Ask your Admission Counselor if you are interested in the program.
Eligible students will receive an invitation.
MSOE electrical engineering student, Logan Luedtke, shows off his dorm room in Hermann Viets Tower and the clever modifications he's made to it.
Helpful information for both new and returning students when moving into our residence halls and Grohmann Tower!
Be in-the-know when it comes to residence hall policies and fees.
Frequency asked questions about living on-campus.
Personalize your room! Let us help you prepare to live in the residence halls.
There are many services available to you in the residence halls.
Explore MSOE’s campus before visiting in person! Use our interactive map to visit our campus housing and academic buildings, see our athletic fields and check out the Milwaukee neighborhood that we call home.
Residence Hall Operating Calendar
Keep these important dates in mind.
Learn more
Residence Life Handbook
Understanding and respecting the rights of others is crucial to making Residence Life successful for everyone.
View the handbook
Residence Life
(414) 277-7400
living@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo