Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Residence Halls
FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Below is a list of frequently asked questions to help students, family, and guardians.
Does MSOE have a residency requirement?
Typically, students must live on campus during their first two years at MSOE.
During the two-year residency requirement, students who live in one of MSOE’s residence halls participate in the unlimited meal plan. Using this plan, students eat in the Robert Spitzer Dining Commons when they want and as much as they wish during operating hours.
The following students are exempt from the housing requirement. Exemptions must be requested before the start of the academic year. They cannot be requested mid-year. The housing and meal contract is for the full academic year.
Be 21 years or older by the start of the fall semester for the academic year.
Be married by the start of the fall semester for the academic year.
Live within 30 miles of campus with their guardian as their primary residence.
Be a transfer student (international or domestic).
Do student-athletes receive priority housing or special consideration?
Under NCAA rules, student-athletes may not receive special housing privileges, priority placement, exemptions or exceptions to residential policies based solely on athletic participation. All housing assignments, room changes and residential processes are administered in accordance with established institutional policy.
What are the benefits of living on campus?
Decades of research demonstrate the benefit of on-campus living during the first two years of the college experience. Students who live on campus feel more connected to their peers, have ready access to campus resources and supports, typically earn better grades and are more likely to graduate.
Living on campus saves time, minimizes the stress of commuting, and offers access to meal plans. Students who live on campus have the safety and security of knowing that members of the Residence Life team, the Resident Assistant staff, and the Public Safety team are there to support them any time of day.
Do I need a wireless router?
Each residential room has an ethernet connection.
Beginning in Fall 2026, all residential buildings will be equipped with native wireless routers; personal wireless routers are not permitted.
IT has several resources to address questions related to the campus network.
MSOE Campus Housing Network Access
Residence Hall Wi-Fi
MSOE Wi-Fi Networks
JVT residents have a Spectrum modem and router included with their housing.
Is there printing in the building?
MSOE-issued laptops can print to any available public printer on campus. These printers operate through the print management system,
Follow-You-Printing.
You will need your MSOE ID card to release your print job.
Each residential facility includes access to a public printer.
Residents can use Follow-You-Printing on their
personal laptops
.
Can I purchase a loft kit?
Viets Tower residents
do not need a loft kit. The furniture is already capable of lofting.
Mellowes Hall residents
do not need a loft kit. The furniture is already capable of lofting.
MLH residents
can
order a loft
through College Products.
Grohmann Tower residents
do not need a loft kit. The beds can be bunked, but not lofted.
JVT residents
have different styles of furniture. Loft kits are included at no cost.
Residents are not permitted to bring their own loft.
What are the dimensions for a typical residential room?
Viets Tower
has a standard room approximately 11' x 17' with potential for slight variations.
MLH
has a standard room approximately 10.5' x 16' with potential for slight variations.
Mellowes Hall,
Grohmann Tower, and JVT
include multiple layouts. Room dimensions vary based on style and location.
Do I have to have a roommate?
Single rooms are limited to students with federally mandated
reasonable accommodations. These accommodations typically occur in Viets Tower, MLH or Mellowes Hall.
Where can I do my laundry?
All of our residential buildings include laundry facilities.
Laundry is located in the basement of VT and MLH and on the 4th floor of GT.
Laundry is free; the cost of laundry facilities is included in the housing rate.
Several JVT apartments include laundry units. JVT residents may also use on-campus laundry rooms at no additional cost.
Where may I store my bike?
Bikes are not permitted in the residential hallways due to egress.
Bicycles should be secured to one of the MSOE bicycle racks located around the campus (e.g., 1121 N. Milwaukee St., 1305 N. Broadway, 501 E. State St., 912 N. Milwaukee St. and 1025 N. Broadway).
Visit
Public Safety
to register your bike and get access.
Where can I park my car?
The Viets Field parking complex is located at 1305 N. Broadway.
The Water Street parking lot is located at 1214 N. Water St.
Students who are assigned parking may park 24-hours a day, seven days a week. A valid student parking permit must be displayed inside your vehicle at all times.
Visit
Public Safety
to apply for a parking permit.
Is there a community kitchen I may use?
There are community kitchens in the Viets Tower basement and MLH 12th floor.
Grohmann Tower and JVT apartments all include a kitchenette.
What furniture is provided?
All residential buildings provide a bedframe, twin XL mattress, dresser, desk, chair and closet space.
What size futon can fit in my room?
An 80-inch futon could fit under a lofted bed in VT and MLH.
How can I transport my items during move in/out?
We provide carts to residents of MLH, VT, GT and Mellowes Hall on a first-come, first-served basis to help students transport their items. Carts are not available at JVT.
Who should I contact if Housing and Meal Plan
information is missing on my.msoe.edu?
You can call (414) 277-7400 or contact a
Residence Life staff member
with any questions about general residence life or specific needs.
Fall housing information typically does not appear until the August preceding the start of the semester.
Spring housing information typically does not appear until the December preceding the start of the semester.
How do I contact  Residence Life?
Start with your resident assistant or the building's front desk.
Connect with your building's community director or assistant community director.
Contact a member of the
Residence Life team
.
What is the Mailing Address?
MLH
Viets Tower/Mellowes Hall
Grohmann Tower
Letters or
Packages
Name
MLH, Room No.
324 E. Juneau Ave.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Name
VT/MH, Room No.
1121 N. Milwaukee St.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Name
233 E. Juneau Ave.,
Apt No.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
JVT Building A
JVT Building B
JVT Building C
Letters or
Packages
Name
1029 N. Jackson St.,
Apt No.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Name
1009 N. Jackson St.,
Apt No.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Name
1129 N. Jackson St.,
Apt No.
Milwaukee, WI 53202
When is the front desk open?
All front desks are open daily during the academic year from 8 a.m. to 12 a.m.
All front desks are closed for Thanksgiving, Winter and Spring breaks.
Front desks operate for limited hours in the summer; typically between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m.
Public Safety operates the desk for overnight security between 12 a.m. and 8 a.m. during the academic year.
Letter mail delivered to one of the residence halls (e.g., VT, Mellowes) is listed by room on a whiteboard at the front desk.
Residents of GT, MLH and JVT should check their mailboxes daily.
If you receive a package to one of the residence halls (e.g., VT, MH, MLH, GT), it is listed on a whiteboard at the front desk.
If you receive a package at JVT, it will likely be left in the package room in Building A.
Can I move in early?
We do not offer early move-in.
Early Drop Off allows residents to bring belongings before the official move-in day. An email sign-up will be sent from Residence Life to students’ MSOE email.
Residence Life
+1 (414) 277-7400
living@msoe.edu
Contact the Help Desk
1025 North Broadway
Campus Center 3rd Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7288
helpdesk@msoe.edu
Help Desk Hours
:
Monday - Thursday:
7:30am - 8:00pm
Friday:
7:30am - 5:00pm
Saturday:
10:00am - 6:00pm
Sunday:
Closed
Summer and Break Help Desk Hours:
Monday - Friday:
8:00am - 4:30pm
Saturday - Sunday:
Closed
Contact Public Safety
Mellowes Hall
1137 N. Milwaukee Street
(SW Corner of E. Juneau Ave & N. Milwaukee St), Ground Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Emergency:
(414) 277-7159
Non-emergency:
(414) 277-7169
Parking:
(414) 277-7161
Campus Shuttle:
(414) 277-7464
SHIP Service:
(414) 277-SHIP or use
Rave Guardian
app
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo