Raider Plan | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Raider Plan
Raider Dollars Plan
Use your MSOE ID card “Raider Dollars Plan” to make cash free purchases at various on- and off-campus locations.
The Raider Dollars Plan is a "debit card" type plan available to all MSOE students, faculty, and staff. Money deposited into the Raider Plan can be used to make cash-free, contactless purchases at various on- and off-campus locations. Raider Dollars are added to the students'
Raider Card
.
Use your Raider Dollars Plan to buy food, vending, and Bookstore items without carrying cash or change. The Raider Dollars Plan adds more flexibility to your
Raider Card
- it can be used to pay for color printing and at various on-campus locations such as the Kern Center and various off-campus merchants who participate.
Where to use your Raider Dollars Plan
On Campus
Dining Commons
Viets Tower Convenience Store
Library Convenience Store
Kern Center Concessions
Vending Machines
Raider Shop
Kern Center Skate Rental
How the Raider Dollars Plan Works
All students, faculty, and staff can use the Raider Dollars Plan. No minimum balance is required, and deposits can be added anytime.
To register for the first time
Click on ‘Sign up now!’
Fill in the fields, making sure to add ‘000’ before your Student ID number and using your @msoe.edu email address.
You can only make deposits to your Raider Dollars Plan. Cash withdrawals are not permitted.
Balances have no expiration.
Your plan balance will appear on the card reader during each transaction or purchase. You can view and print your transaction history through
GET
.
Adding Funds to your Raider Dollars Plan
Students can add funds to their Raider Dollars Plan anytime through the
GET
portal. Parents and relatives can also add funds anytime, and students can use the
GET
portal to request funds. Parents and relatives should also add '000' before the Student ID to complete the process to add funds.
You may also add funds to your Raider Dollars Plan by making checks payable to MSOE; include your ID # on the check, write “Raider Plan” in the memo line, and send it to the following address:
Office of Student Accounts
Milwaukee School of Engineering
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
Reporting a Lost ID
If you lose your ID card, log onto GET or
webcard.msoe.edu
and mark your card as lost. If you find your card, log onto
GETfunds
or
webcard.msoe.edu
and mark that you have found your card. If you need a replacement, email the
Help Desk
, and a replacement ID will be made. A replacement fee will be charged to the student's account at the Office of Student Accounts.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo