Student Support Services | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Student Support Services
Services offered by MSOE that are designed to promote both academic and non-academic success during the pursuit of your education.
MSOE is committed to student success and satisfaction.  Therefore there is a wide variety of services available to help with whatever needs may arise and more.
Get connected to Academic Assistance through Tutoring, Raider Success Coaching and the Carter Academy.
These offices are available to support the emotional and physical health of all MSOE students.
MSOE is committed to student safety.  Not only is MSOE located in a safe part of the city, there is a public safety presence on campus 24/7.
An MSOE education includes a laptop for each student that provides personal access to software that you will be using in class.  Not only that, but there is a comprehensive IT support desk to help with your computing needs.
Commuter students are just as much a part of the MSOE community as those who live on campus.  Therefore there are a variety of services that are designed to help with specific needs that commuter students may face.
The MSOE education is designed to prepare students to launch their careers.  The MSOE Career Connections Center helps with career search and more.
MSOE appreciates the service given to our country by our veterans and seeks to meet the needs that may arise for veterans as they pursue an MSOE education.   Find a list of services here along with contact information.
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo