Music Program | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Campus Life
Music Program
Music Program
"Music gives wings to the mind and flight to the imagination."
Cultivate your musical passion and join MSOE’s Music Program!  Our program offers both academic and a non-academic opportunity providing students with a positive and engaging experience. Whether you're an active member of your high school choir or band, or you haven’t played your instrument in a while, we believe music is for everyone—no matter your academic focus or skill level.
Students can earn credit for participation in concert ensembles (Concert Band, Jazz Ensemble, String Orchestra, Concert Choir), or opt for a non-credit option. Other ensembles with a non-credit option only include Pep Band and Jazz Combo. Auditions are not required for participation in the music program, but may be used at director’s discretion for skills assessment or chair placements.
Performance Ensembles
Enhance your music skills and expand your creativity in a group atmosphere by joining one of our student ensembles.
Performance ensembles may change to reflect student interest.
Concert Band
(credit/non-credit)
Concert Choir
(credit/non-credit)
Drum Line
(non-credit only)
Jazz Ensemble
(credit/non-credit)
Jazz Combo
(credit/non-credit)
Pep Band
(credit/non-credit)
String Orchestra
(credit/non-credit)
Additional music opportunities include a music theory course, music production club, and access to a recording studio. All of these experiences are available at the Patricia E. Kern Conservatory, the heart of MSOE’s music offerings!
Read more about MSOE's Music Program for-credit offering in our course catalog.
Students
02.02.2026
MSOE students participate in Wisconsin Intercollegiate Honor Band
MSOE students participated in the Wisconsin Intercollegiate Honor Band at the Wisconsin Concert Band Association State Convention at UW-Eau Claire. The…
Read More
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo