New Student Resources | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Event Calendar
MSOE Traditions
Welcome Week
New Student Resources
Resources for New Students
Congratulations on becoming a Raider!
There are a few last steps before you are join us for Welcome Week in September. A hard copy Welcome Packet has been mailed to your residence and will help walk you through the New Student Checklist. Please become familiar with the
MyMSOE portal
as many forms and requirements can be found there on the new student tab. If you have any questions about the New Student Checklist please contact Admissions.
Find your MyMSOE username here
.
A valid MSOE student ID card is required for many things on campus - everything from eating and meals to using the copiers. Make sure your ID card is ready to go. You will need your MSOE user ID and password in order to begin the process. Your photo will be reviewed for acceptability and a confirmation email will be sent to your @msoe.edu email whether it was accepted or rejected. Cards will be handed out during move-in or can be picked up during your transfer, commuter or international student orientation.
Welcome your parents and family to MSOE in style! Learn more about our exclusive Parent and Family Weekend.
MSOE requires all students to complete and submit several important documents, including Title IX and more.
Grab you final transcript and send it over to our Admissions office. Once we have that in our office, you're golden! REMINDER: All transcripts must be completed via official mail from your high school.
The resources below are yours to download and keep handy as you begin your new journey at MSOE!
Review the MyMSOE portal to finalize all your student account information including; accepting your Financial Aid Award Offer, Completing the Federal Loan Process at studentloans.gov (if accepting loans),  Completing the Financial Responsibility Acceptance form (required), Completing a Release of Student Financial Information form (optional) and many other key student account forms and to dos.
Welcome Week Schedule
Welcome week is chock-full of great activities and information sessions to welcome you and your family to MSOE!
Check out the Schedule
Move in and Get Settled
Residence hall move in AND laptop pickup will take place on Tuesday, August 28th! What time is reserved for you? Check the handy schedule.
View the schedule
Meet Your Dean of Students
This is MSOE's Dean of Students, Kip Kussman. He's here to make sure your journey at MSOE is successful and a great experience. The Dean of Students Office provides students with support, resources, referrals and more.
Meet Dean Kussman
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo