Technology Program | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Information Technology
Technology Program
Technology Program
IT helps students maximize their education and helps staff and faculty create amazing learning experiences.
Laptop Program
The program ensures that students, faculty, and staff have a standard set of tools - both hardware and software - that increase efficiency, connections, learning outcomes, and meets a majority of their wireless computing needs, thus producing a wireless laptop campus environment. MSOE students are provided with the tools that they will need to be thrive in our ever growing technological environment. The program is more than just a laptop computer! The laptops come equipped with what students need from the start to end of their time at MSOE. Students receive a laptop computer, access to necessary software, wireless and wired connectivity on campus, service and support (Help Desk), network storage, email and black and white printing. Students are welcome to purchase optional accessories to complement their MSOE laptop. Any questions about compatibility can be directed to the MSOE Help Desk. Color printing is also available across campus at a cost to the student.
What You Get
You have a notebook PC 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Take notes in class. Record data in laboratory sessions. Prepare reports and papers. Develop presentations utilizing specialized software. Send emails to your professors. Research the Internet. The fee covers:
Laptop and power cord
Ownership after graduation with a bachelor’s degree upon meeting all criteria of the laptop computer program
On-site laptop and user support including repairs
Guaranteed loaner if your computer needs service
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint - we will maintain current virus protection on your machine
Where Can I Use it?
You can connect into MSOE’s computer network from the residence halls or public areas, the library, labs and classrooms across campus. Or, go wireless — it’s available throughout campus.
Is it Mine?
At the end of your senior year, most students will own the computer. As long as you graduate and allow us to remove the software (per our licensing agreements with software vendors) and adhere to a few other details, it’s yours.
Printing "Follow You"
The laptops are configured to print via the print management system. You will need your MSOE ID card to release your print job. Laptops print to the any available public printer on campus. You must be on campus or connected to VPN.
Wireless Internet Access
The MSOE Wireless Network provides Internet access throughout the university. MSOE laptops will attempt to connect to the wireless network automatically with the credentials of the logged in user. If you need to manually connect, please use your MSOE domain user ID and password.
MSOE-Guest is intended only for guests and visitors and only provides rate-limited access to the internet and not MSOE resources.
Technology Fee
Full-time undergraduate students will be charged a technology fee. This technology fee includes participation in the laptop program, supports information technology, printing services, network usage, and other related services. Part-time and graduate students have to opt-in to the laptop program for $176 per semester in addition to their part time and graduate technology fees.
In addition to the laptop services listed above, additional services covered by the technology fee include:
Access to necessary software for all degrees (depending on your degree program, you may be required to obtain additional software. It also may be possible to purchase some software with textbooks at a discounted price.)
Access to internet through campus network
1TB of cloud storage
Cloud based email allowing access from anywhere
Wireless access
Black and white printing
Contact the Help Desk
1025 North Broadway
Campus Center 3rd Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7288
helpdesk@msoe.edu
Help Desk Hours
:
Monday - Thursday:
7:30am - 8:00pm
Friday:
7:30am - 5:00pm
Saturday:
10:00am - 6:00pm
Sunday:
Closed
Summer and Break Help Desk Hours:
Monday - Friday:
8:00am - 4:30pm
Saturday - Sunday:
Closed
IT Policies
More information regarding the IT Policies can be found on the Help Desk website.
View all IT Policies
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo