Residence Halls Fees & Policies | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Residence Halls
Residence Halls Fees & Policies
Fees, Policies and Forms
Be in-the-know when it comes to residence hall policies and fees.
Residence Life Housing Rates
Housing and meal plan rates
are revised and published each year. Returning students will incur a cancellation fee if they decide to cancel after the designated date. However, incoming students have the flexibility to cancel their plans up until the Friday of the first week of classes.
Cancellation Fee
Fee
Cancel Room Agreement after May 1st for the Fall Semester
$500
Residence Hall Refund
In the event of an academic termination or a student's decision to terminate their student status, housing fee refunds will be authorized according to the
refund schedule
. All residence hall refunds are determined by the actual move-out date.
Residency Requirement
Living on campus is a great way to meet new people, experience Milwaukee events, and have the convenience of access to all campus resources nearby. Nearly all first-year and second-year students live on campus in one of our residential buildings. All unmarried first-year and second-year students under 21 live in one of our residential buildings unless they live within 30 miles of campus with their guardian at their primary residence. Transfer students, international or domestic, are exempt from the residency requirement. Students completing their residency requirements are required to have a
meal plan
.
Students who violate their residency requirements are subject to the full cost of the housing and meal plan fees for the year. The Dean of Residence Life may grant individuals exceptions to the MSOE residency requirement on a case-by-case basis. Exemptions must be requested before the start of the academic year. They cannot be requested mid-year. The housing and meal contract is for the full academic year.
Residence Hall Forms
Policies have been set to assist students in a smooth transition and to help them feel comfortable in the residence halls.
Residence Life Handbook
Withdrawal, Leave of Absence or University Departure Form
MSOE Residence Life Handbook
An understanding of and respect for the rights of others is very important in making Residence Hall life successful for all.
View the handbook
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo