Government | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Government
Governing Organizations
Organizations that directly represent the student body through collaboration with administration.
Fraternity - Sorority Council (FSC)
The council is made of two fraternities and three sororities. The council’s goal is to bring fraternities and sororities together and to improve life on campus through philanthropic, social, educational, and other events.
A collection of all Greek life orgs at MSOE (SPD, Triangle, KSM, LZN, and AOE). The council’s goal is to bring fraternities and sororities together and to improve life on campus through philanthropic, social, educational, and other events.
Residence Hall Association (RHA)
MSOE Residence Hall Association (RHA) is a student-led organization dedicated to enhancing the residential experience on campus. RHA serves as the voice of the residents, promoting community engagement, leadership, and collaboration across all residence halls. Through fun and inclusive events, advocacy initiatives, and active communication with housing staff, RHA works to create a welcoming and vibrant living environment for all MSOE students.
Student Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC)
This student-athlete organization works together with other SAACs in the NACC and Division III athletics to advocate for student athletes and coordinate opportunities for MSOE community engagement in athletics.
Student Government Association (SGA)
The Milwaukee School of Engineering Student Government Association serves to promote cooperation between students and administration, and to strengthen the community at the Milwaukee School of Engineering.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo