Outdoor and Recreation | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Outdoor and Recreation
Outdoor and Recreational Organizations
Organizations that enjoy the great outdoors while living in the heart of the city.
Billiards Club
The MSOE Billiards Club is a community for students with a shared interest in pool and other cue sports regardless of skill level. We provide students with a place to socialize, practice, and enjoy billiard games with other students who share in their passion!
Disc Golf Club
The MSOE Disc Golf Club is a campus organization that is dedicated to bringing together the disc golfing community to share the experience, knowledge, and enjoyment of the game while meeting new people.
Fencing Club
Fencing club teaches interested students the fundamentals of fencing in a safe environment, strives to uphold the honorable traditions of foil, epee, sabre, and rapier bouts, creates an environment where members can use fencing as a means of individual athletic growth and intellectual growth, and works to increase the visibility of, and access to, the sport of fencing among the MSOE community.
Ice Skating Club
Ice Skating Club is a vibrant and inclusive student-led ice skating club dedicated to promoting the art and sport of ice skating on our campus. We provide a welcoming and supportive environment for ice skating enthusiasts of all skill levels, from beginners to advanced skaters. Our club offers a unique opportunity for students to improve their ice skating skills, engage in friendly competitions, and foster a sense of community.
MSOE Rock Climbing Club
The Rock Climbing Club meets twice a week at local gyms with occasional outdoor trips and competitions. The club provides members with a supportive environment to learn and refine their skills and enjoy the thrill of climbing. Our community fosters climbers who appreciate the challenge the sport brings.
Ski & Snowboarding
Ski and Snowboarding Club connects MSOE students interested in skiing and/or snowboarding at resorts both close to and far from Milwaukee. They also aim to teach members how to improve their skills in one or both sports, how to better maintain their equipment, and provide a community of students to ski and ride with.
Table Tennis Club
Table Tennis Club is a place where new and experienced table tennis players can come to improve their skills and challenge other players. We are open to all MSOE students and host tournaments throughout the year to foster a community of table tennis enthusiasts.
Unicycle Club
Unicycle Club is for anyone interested in unicycling or learning how to unicycle. Our mission is to increase public knowledge of unicycling and how awesome it is. We will teach people to ride a unicycle and have a place where fellow unicycle riders can get together to ride.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo