Honor Societies | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Honor Societies
Honor Societies
There are several honor societies at MSOE dedicated to recognizing academic and professional excellence in their chosen fields.
Alpha Eta Mu Beta
Alpha Eta Mu Beta (AEMB) aims to unite students in the study of Biomedical Engineering and recognize those who have demonstrated strong interest and exceptional ability in the field. The organization promotes a deeper understanding of biomedical engineering while fostering the professional development of its members.
Delta Mu Delta - International Business Honor Society
Delta Mu Delta is an international honor society that recognizes academic excellence in Baccalaureate, Master's, and Doctorate degrees and business administration programs at the Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs-accredited schools.
National Society of Leadership and Success
The NSLS serves as a guide to help students achieve their goals and to help students build confidence so they can pursue leadership roles in their communities. Leadership is the ability to set a goal and take steps to achieve it for yourself and others. Leadership is for everyone, and everyone has the potential to be a leader.
Nursing Honor Society
The MSOE Nursing Honor Society recognizes nursing students who maintain a 3.0 GPA and demonstrate superior achievement, leadership development, high professional standards, creativity, and strong commitment to the ideals of the nursing profession.
Tau Beta Pi
Tau Beta Pi recognizes engineering students for academic achievement and exemplary character. Tau Beta Pi is a service organization that seeks to improve the quality of its members and the community in which they live.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo