Code of Conduct | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Dean of Students
Online Student Handbook
Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct
MSOE Student Code of Conduct
All students are members of several communities — country, state, city and campus. As such, each student is subject to the conduct codes prescribed by each of these communities. Concurrently, both the university and civil authorities have jurisdiction in any violation of law occurring on property owned and controlled by MSOE.
As an academic community, MSOE has a vested interest in both the safety and well- being of members of this community, and the perpetuation of an educational environment that reflects the high caliber of men and women this institution is proud to have joined its alumni ranks. The intention of this code is to maintain and promote the educational mission of MSOE. The Student Conduct Code specifies the minimum level of conduct expected of every MSOE student. The policies and procedures given are those that students, faculty and administration at the university have agreed upon to further the educational mission of the university and to assist all students in the pursuit of their educational and personal development.
A student voluntarily joining any university community assumes the obligation of abiding by the standards that it has instituted relevant to its mission, processes, functions and goals. Ultimate responsibility and authority in matters of student conduct reside with the president of MSOE, who has delegated immediate responsibility and authority for student conduct to the Dean of Students, assisted by student life and residence halls staff. MSOE, through the office of the Dean of Students, reserves the exclusive authority to impose sanctions for behavior that violates this code, and/or to sever the student from membership in the academic community. Those charged with the enforcement of this code will at all times endeavor to observe the due process system so that each student is heard in a just and consistent manner.
The provisions of the Student Conduct Code are not to be regarded as contractual covenants between the university and the student. The university reserves the right to change procedures contained herein at any time within the student’s term of enrollment or residence, with communication of said changes being given to the members of the campus community. In the event that there arises some ambiguity, inconsistency or need for clarification on student conduct procedures or any portion thereof, such definition, interpretation or clarification shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Dean of Students, and his determination in such instances shall be final.
MSOE Student Code of Conduct
The intention of this code is to maintain and promote the educational mission of MSOE. The Student Conduct Code specifies the minimum level of conduct expected of every MSOE student.
View the code of conduct.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo