Rave Guardian FAQs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Campus Safety
Rave Guardian FAQs
Rave Guardian FAQs
Learn all about the app that turns your smartphone into a safety device.
What is Rave Guardian?
Rave Guardian is a free mobile app that turns your smartphone into a personal safety device. By downloading Rave Guardian to a mobile phone, users can invite friends and family directly from their phone’s contact list to join their network as a “guardian.” Users can then request one or more of their guardians to act as a virtual safety escort when traveling on or off campus. It’s like being in the company of a trusted friend at all times. Should a user run into trouble during a trip, Rave Guardian includes one-button access to 911 or the MSOE Public Safety Department. Users also can use the app to text the MSOE Public Safety Department tips regarding concerns or suspicious situations that are not emergent in nature.
Why does MSOE have this app?
Safety is a top priority at MSOE. We believe the app is another valuable tool available to the campus community to enhance the safety and security of our faculty, staff and students.
Who should download Rave Guardian?
We strongly encourage all faculty, staff and students to take advantage of this safety tool. It’s free, easy to use and offers another layer of protection. Friends and family do not need a university email or to have the Rave Guardian app to be a “guardian.”
What should I include in my profile?
The more information you provide, the more designated responders will know how to assist you in an emergency. At minimum, include your address (home and school), your physical description and a recent photo. If necessary, include any important medical information.
Does it matter which email address I use?
Yes. If you want to take advantage of the campus-specific features, you should use your MSOE email address when creating a profile on the app. By doing so, you will be able to access the tips feature, contact MSOE at the touch of a button and more.
How does the “Safe Walk” feature work?
Once you’ve downloaded Rave Guardian to your mobile phone, you can invite friends and family to join your network as “guardians,” even if they don’t have the Rave Guardian app installed on their phone. You can invite guardians to virtually join you during a timed session, such as a walk home late at night or a trip to a new area
.
Here’s how it works:
Select anyone from your phone’s contact list to be your guardian(s) to join you virtually during a timed trip.
Add a note explaining to your guardian(s) where you’re going.
Set the timer for how long you think your trip will take.
Hit “Start Timer” button, and Rave Guardian will automatically invite your selected guardian(s) and start counting down the trip.
During the timed trip, Rave Guardian will share your approximate location and route with your appointed guardian(s). Remember, ONLY the guardian(s) you choose for the trip can see this data.
If you discover the time for the trip has changed, use the “Add 1 Minute” or “Subtract 1 Minute” buttons to adjust your time.
Deactivate the timer when you arrive safely at your destination. If you don’t deactivate the timer, Rave Guardian automatically messages your guardian(s) when it expires.
Is Rave Guardian always tracking me?
No. You can only be located if you have asked for help. Rave Guardian location information is only enabled when you choose to make an emergency call, send a tip or when your safety timer expires, alerting your guardian(s) to your location. You share your location on your terms, either sharing your location once or with streaming capabilities.
Will Rave Guardian let other people like my family or friends track me?
Yes. If you assign “guardians” during an individual “timed” usage, they will be able to track your status in real time. But remember, you are in full control of this feature.
Can my guardian be someone who is not on campus?
Anyone in your smartphone’s contact list can be your guardian. Guardians do not need an MSOE email address or have the Rave Guardian app downloaded on their phone.
Does Rave Guardian work off campus?
Yes, Rave Guardian will work off campus, but if you have an emergency at an off-campus location, you should always dial 911.
Contact Public Safety
Mellowes Hall
1137 N. Milwaukee Street
(SW Corner of E. Juneau Ave & N. Milwaukee St), Ground Floor
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Emergency:
(414) 277-7159
Non-emergency:
(414) 277-7169
Parking:
(414) 277-7161
Campus Shuttle:
(414) 277-7464
SHIP Service:
(414) 277-SHIP or use
Rave Guardian
app
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo