Social | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Social
Social Organizations
Fuel your passion through arts, photography, gaming, theatre and more!
Art & Design Club (A&DC)
A&DC provides an artistic community here at MSOE. The club provides artistic opportunities through events, workshops, activities, and collaboration between other organizations, on and off campus. A&DC also oversees the artistic maker space, the stART Lab in the Grohmann Museum.
Amateur Radio Club (W9HHX)
The W9HHX MSOE Amateur Radio Club strives to provide an open and welcoming environment for students to get hands on and applied experience in the field of amateur radio. We provide assistance with getting licensed and have equipment that is free to use for members to get on the air!
Chess Club
Chess Club is a club that allows players and fans of the game of Chess to come together and enjoy the game.
Crochet and Knitting Club
Crochet and Knitting club invites all levels of crafters to come and learn how to knit and crochet! We have free supplies and can teach you either skill, in addition to providing a social environment to make new friends and de-stress during the week! Individuals already advanced in either skill are more than welcome to come hang out and grab some yarn as well, hope to see you soon!
MSOE Anime and Gaming Enthusiasts (MAGE)
MAGE is MSOE's club for all things pop culture. If you've got a love for video games, board games, D&D, anime/manga, sci-fi, or anything in between, then this is the place for you!
MSOE Mug Club
Mug Club is a social club aiming to provide students with an engaging, fun, and stress-free environment to meet others with similar interests, and to allow students to relax and enjoy Mug root beer.
MSOE Music Club
A supportive community for MSOE students interested in all things music, from production to performance, welcoming everyone from beginners looking to learn to experienced or semi-professional musicians seeking out collaborators
MSOE Right to Life
MSOE Right to Life is a pro-life club that is affiliated with Wisconsin Right to Life.
MSOE Theatre Troupe
Theatre Troupe is a student-led organization that plans, creates, and participates in all theatre productions at MSOE. They put on plays, musicals, and other fun events for MSOE and the surrounding community to enjoy.
Mythos, Eros, and Echos (MEE)
MSOE's resident creative writing club: open to writers and storytellers of all levels of experience and genres of interest.
Philosophy Club
The purpose of the Philosophy Club is to create and facilitate discussion about philosophy, as well as educate the student body in different philosophical viewpoints and abstract, critical thinking.
Warhammer Club
Warhammer Club aims to enrich the lives of MSOE students interested in Warhammer through community connection and artistic expression, by means of constructing and painting miniatures and terrain, immersing in the lore and book series connected to the game, and playing Games Workshop games.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo