Professional | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Organizations
Professional
Professional Organizations
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) is a professional organization that connects students, professionals, and employers in the aerospace industry through events, networking opportunities, and collaborative initiatives. At the university level, AIAA serves as a multidisciplinary club that brings together engineering students to explore aerospace topics, discuss industry trends, and engage in hands-on projects. Many senior design teams and student organizations participate in AIAA-affiliated competitions, such as Design/Build/Fly and other aerospace challenges.
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) at MSOE aids students who are interested in the design and construction aspects of the built environment. Within the student chapter, members are exposed to technical presentations related to civil engineering from companies, alumni, and fellow students. This organization provides opportunities for service and networking for students such as Youth Membership Group or golf outings. ASCE at MSOE also provides the opportunity for students to compete in events such as Concrete Canoe and Steel Bridge which involves rigorous planning and design for competition in April.
American Society of Heating, Refridgerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) aids students in the design of Building Mechanical Systems. This organization exposes members and other interested persons in information about the sciences of heating, refrigerating and air-conditioning through lectures, presentations, and demonstrations from companies and professional individuals. This organization provides opportunities for networking and career guidance to students.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
ASME is a professional organization offered to all students at MSOE. This organization focuses on building mechanical engineering students who have been exposed to industry speakers, have had teamwork opportunities, and have been directed towards excellence in their field.
Architectural Engineering Institute
MSOE’s student chapter of the Architectural Engineering Institute seeks to provide its members with the latest technical information, professional development, continued education, and opportunities to excel in their careers. They aim specifically to connect AE students with other AE’s at MSOE and throughout the country. In doing so, they provide many opportunities for students throughout the CAECM department to grow and learn about the intricacies of the industry beyond the classroom. Some of the specific ways they accomplish this goal are via networking events, company presentations, jobsite tours, career fair prep sessions, and study sessions. They also host some of CAECM’s largest annual traditions including Masonry Day and Wheelchair Days, as well as maintaining the pirate ship for the Milwaukee Admirals hockey team.
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES)
BMES serves as a student chapter for a society of professionals devoted to developing and using engineering and technology to advance human health and well-being and to build and support the biomedical engineering community, locally, and nationally, with activities that promote education and innovative growth. Members meet monthly to promote biomedical engineering and to provide a social environment for biomedical engineering students at MSOE.
Business Professionals of America (BPA)
The Business Professionals of America is a competition-based club focusing on the tech side of business aspects. We hold events on coding competitions, business administration, financial analysis, media production, graphic design, promotion, and medical diagnostic coding to further develop our professional development. Success in individual or team events can earn members a spot at the National Leadership Conference each spring.
Fluid Power Club (FPC)
The Fluid Power Club is a National Fluid Power Association (NFPA) affiliated club. The FPC provides a place where students can gain a better understanding of fluid power principles, either through the use of guest speakers from industry leading companies or through projects that use these concepts. With MSOE being a leader in fluid power education in America, the Fluid Power Club hopes to utilize the resources available to bring more students to the fluid power industry.
Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA)
The purpose of this organization is to connect students with aspirations of going into the medical field and give students a chance to broaden their experience within different aspects of related professions.
Institute of Industrial & Systems Engineers
The Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE) is a professional society dedicated solely to the support of the industrial and systems engineering professions and individuals involved with improving quality and productivity. MSOE student chapter focuses on exposing industrial engineering students to professional and social opportunities within the industrial engineering community. IISE further provides networking opportunities for industrial engineering students to connect with faculty and alumni.
Institute of Transportation Engineers
ITE strives to inform students about information regarding transportation infrastructure as well as aid students in gaining internships or full time jobs. ITE organizes presentations from companies or officers, tours of factories or offices, or networking with transportation experts.
Math and Actuarial Science Club
MASC is a social, professional, and academic organization open to all MSOE students with a focus on helping students through the Actuarial Science field.
MSOE Chapter of The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
MSOE's Student Chapter of IEEE is focused on improving the technical and professional skills of any MSOE student who wishes to make the world a better place through the use of technology. With connection to the national organization, they're able to bring in corporate speakers, and host workshops that help students progress faster in their careers and their coursework.
MSOE Pre-Medical Society
MSOE Premedical Society is dedicated to supporting those aspiring to a career in medicine by creating educational learning experiences, hosting guest speaker engagements, and providing resources such as local volunteering opportunities and networking events.
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
The mission of NSBE is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black Engineers and foster a community here at MSOE.
Professional Construction Society
Professional Construction Society provides MSOE students, especially those pursuing degrees within the CAECM Department, with professional growth opportunities including but not limited to; Networking Events, Company Presentations, Industry Specific Presentations, Jobsite Tour visits, etc..
Project Management Club (PMC)
Project Management Club is an organization that provides all students, regardless of major, with opportunities to learn more about project management. The PMP club offers students chances to interact with others in the field, as well as gain and refine project management skills.
Regenerative Engineering Society
The Regenerative Engineering Society is a club for those interested in the field of regenerative engineering. This organization will allow students to learn about the field and connect with students with similar interests and goals..
Society for Biological Engineering / American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
SBE/ASBMB's purpose is to help  students build their network, hear about internship opportunities, and grow professionally.
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
MSOE-SHPE strives to empower the Hispanic student body at the Milwaukee School of Engineering to realize their potential by providing resources, awareness, support, and development. As a chapter of the largest Hispanic professional society in STEM, we have a unique opportunity to boost Hispanic voices in the industry and enable growth through training, mentorship, and programming for all members. We continue to work toward higher retention and recruitment of Hispanic students at MSOE and the STEM field as a whole, as well as foster and maintain strong relationships with industry partners such as Direct Supply, Milwaukee Tool, and Eaton in order to cultivate a foundation of professionalism and expertise for MSOE's Hispanic student body. They continue to provide unity to the Hispanic population at MSOE.
Society of Software Engineers
The Society of Software Engineers is a club for anyone majoring in, interested in, or just curious about software engineering. They hold a variety of both social and professional events all year long to enhance their professional skills and network with local companies. For those interested in programming, students can join together and build their own games, practice answering logic puzzles and programming-related questions, and contribute to building websites. Whether you’re looking to find new friends in your major, do some networking with local companies, or develop your skills, SSE has something for you.
Society of Women Engineers (SWE)
The Society of Women Engineers is a non-profit, professional, educational, service organization dedicated to making known the need for women engineers and encouraging young women to consider an engineering education. It is open to students of all genders, races, religion, sexuality, and majors.
Student Nurses Association (SNA)
Student Nurses Association is a professional nursing organization dedicated to the professional, educational, and personal growth of its members by providing a network of opportunities for health promotion and involvement in the Milwaukee School of Engineering community and the greater Milwaukee community. Members participate in activities related to the pillars of the organization: community building, professional growth, philanthropy, and wellness. Activities include community gatherings, volunteering, and hosting teaching sessions. This organization is also associated with both the Wisconsin Nurses Association and National Student Nurses Association.
User Experience Club
User Experience Club’s mission is to inform the MSOE student body and the greater Milwaukee area about user experience and its applications in the industry. This club is open to everyone regardless of major or minor.
Women in Construction
Women in Construction is a female led organization focused on supporting women in construction-related fields of study, including but not exclusive to the CAECM department. This includes professional growth, community bonding, and public outreach.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo