Hazing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Dean of Students
Student Resources
Hazing
Hazing
Policy Statement
MSOE does not tolerate hazing. See our
Hazing Policy
which strictly prohibits hazing and is based on laws set by the State of Wisconsin stated in section
948.51 Wisconsin Hazing Law
.
No person may intentionally or recklessly engage in acts which endanger the physical health or safety of a student for the purpose of initiation or admission into or affiliation with any organization operating in connection with a school, college, or university.
Under those circumstances, prohibited acts may include any brutality of a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, forced consumption of any food, liquor, drug or other substance, forced confinement or any other forced activity which endangers the physical health or safety of the student.
In accordance with the Stop Campus Hazing Act, hazing is defined as:
Any intentional, knowing or reckless act committed by a person, whether individually or in concert with others, against another person or persons—regardless of willingness to participate—that occurs in the course of initiation into, affiliation with, or maintenance of membership in a student organization, and that causes or creates a risk, above the reasonable risk encountered in the course of participation in the institution of higher education or the organization (such as the physical preparation necessary for participation in an athletic team), of physical or psychological injury.
Commitment to Education and Prevention
MSOE is committed to prevention and education. Through leadership development, bystander training, hazing prevention training, and positive team building strategies, we strive to help students build strong communities without resorting to hazing.
Reporting and Accountability
Students and other members of the campus community who experience or witness hazing are encouraged to speak up. Reports can be made by stopping by the Dean of Students Office (CC 345) or emailing
deanofstudents@msoe.edu
. Concerns may be reported anonymously, however, keep in mind that anonymous reporting will often prevent the university from engaging in the follow-up necessary to best enforce the hazing policy. Adverse actions taken against reporting parties are considered a violation of MSOE's Student Code of Conduct.
In compliance with federal law, MSOE will publish annual hazing statistics and a
Campus Hazing Transparency Report
to keep our community informed.
Investigation and Enforcement
The Dean of Students Office is responsible for investigating and adjudicating reports of hazing among students. Hazing is a violation of the
Student Code of Conduct
and may result in disciplinary action, up to and including suspension or expulsion for individuals and organizations involved.
Hazing as defined in Wis. Stat. 948.51 is considered a felony or a misdemeanor depending on the context of the situation. Reports of hazing that include allegations of criminal behavior, or the involvement of faculty.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo