Living Off Campus | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Living at MSOE
Living Off Campus
Living Off Campus
There are many off campus apartments available for students at MSOE. This apartment guide can help you find the perfect place to live off campus.
For Students
Tailored for undergraduate and graduate students, the Rent College Pads Off-Campus Housing Marketplace works with landlords and students to help locate the best apartments and homes for rent near campus. Services also include helping students find roommates and subleases for the summer, and provides campus guides for prospective students to view as they transition into college life.
Browse the
list of resources
and click on the active housing list for the most complete list of off-campus housing near MSOE.
For International Students
Are you an international student transferring to MSOE? Do you have questions about immigration, finances, and living in the U.S.? The
Resources for International Students page
is here to help.
Resources
Apartment Renting 101
Click to download this helpful informational sheet!
Find Law's Landlord-Tenant Resource
This online site is an excellent resource regarding tenant rights and responsibilities. Check out their FAQ lists (Frequently Asked Questions) on topics ranging from Security Deposits to Tenant Privacy Rights to advice on how to deal with roommates practically and legally. The site also points you to other resources such as books one might read to get more information.
Landlord-Tenant Law: An Overview
This online resource helps explain the rights that landlords and tenants have. It's a bit heavy on the legal side, but is a good jumping off point to other resources through their list of links.
In My Area
Find providers and compare prices for Internet, Cable TV and other home services available in your specific area. This service is at no cost to students and includes free relocation consultations.
For Landlords
If you're interested in being a part of our database of off-campus housing options near MSOE, please visit Rent College Pads'
List With Us
page for more information.
Residence Life
+1 (414) 277-7400
living@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo