Directions and Parking | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Our Campus
Directions and Parking
How to Get to MSOE
Construction around the Milwaukee area is ongoing, make sure to check out the Wisconsin Department of Transportation's travel information for roadwork projects prior to your visit!
MSOE Visitors – Welcome to Campus!
Most visitors come to the Campus Center which is located at
1025 N. Broadway.
Once you arrive, the signage by the elevator can direct you to the appropriate location within the building.  For additional information about campus or to locate another building, please refer to our
helpful interactive map
.
Directions
Conveniently located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee – and close to all major thoroughfares – MSOE is easily accessible when traveling from out of town.
From the North (via I-43)
Take I-43 south to downtown Milwaukee. Then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Turn left (east) on McKinley; proceed for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the North (via 41/45)
Take Highway 41 south to Milwaukee; then take I-94 east to downtown Milwaukee; then take I-43 north toward Green Bay (exit # 310B; then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the South
Take I-94 west/I-43 north to downtown Milwaukee. Continue north on I-43, then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
From the West
Take I-94 east to downtown Milwaukee; then take I-43 north toward Green Bay (exit # 310B); 794; then take Highway 145 east/McKinley Avenue exit (exit # 73A). Proceed on McKinley for about six blocks. Turn right on Broadway to the specific building or parking lot on campus.
Parking – MSOE Lots
All visitors
must
pre-register their vehicle
prior
to parking in an MSOE lot for your appointment or visit unless:
You are visiting during an admissions open house, campus visit day or a graduate studies showcase
You are attending an event where the host has indicated that  “blanket parking” has been provided for event guests
The most central lot on campus is the Broadway Lot which is across from the Campus Center. Turn into the parking lot at Broadway and Highland Ave. For additional on campus parking information, please refer to our
helpful interactive map.
NOTE:
Visitors are
not able to park
at Viets Field at this time. Visitors of the
Grohmann Museum
are able to park in the Grohmann Museum lot behind the museum, but must register their vehicle directly with the Grohmann Museum beforehand.
Additional Parking Options
In addition to street parking (which is approximately $3.33/2 hours via the MKE Park app and free after 6 p.m.), there are multiple indoor and outdoor parking options available close to campus, including:
1000 North Water Parking Garage (
1000 N. Water Street, Milwaukee, WI 53202
)
SP+ Parking Surface Lot (enter at
221 E. Juneau Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53202
)
Viets Field Parking Rates
Monthly Parking Rates
Faculty/Staff/FSI
$40/month
Building Tenants
$55/month
Public Parking (24/7)
$120/month
(Starting September 1, 2014)
Daily Parking Rates
0-1 hour
$2
1-2 hours
$4
2-4 hours
$6
4-6 hours
$9
6-24 hours
$12
Lost Ticket
$50
In after 5 p.m. and all day Saturday or Sunday
$5
Visitor Parking Vehicle Registration
Make sure to register your vehicle prior to visiting MSOE! Registration is quick and easy.
Register now
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Student Parking Permit Information
Bringing a car to campus? Review the information you need to know before securing a parking permit and parking in any of our lots or parking structures.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo