Raider Success Courses | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Raider Center for Academic Success
Raider Success Courses
Raider Success Courses
OR-0911 Foundations of Student Success
In this course, students make improvements with time management, study habits, class engagement, procrastination and motivation, as well as mental and emotional health.  A student considering taking this course might identify with one of the following statements:
My week controls me rather than me being in control of my week.
I struggle to maintain energy for my classes and my academic responsibilities.
My college experience consists of attending class and studying, leaving little room for exploring interests or meeting new people.
No matter how much time I spend studying, I am not earning the grades I would hope to.
I make poor decisions of how I spend my time, which impacts the grades I earn.
OR-0912 Student Support & Academic Intervention
To continue the work from another Raider Success Course, OR-0912 provides one-on-one check-ins that utilize goal-setting and habit formation to continue to plan, assess, and implement an action plan that helps achieve personal and academic goals.  Students considering this course might state:
I would like an extra term to ensure the changes I made previously, continue to work.
My previous OR course was helpful; it might be time to refresh some of my strategies.
I have additional responsibilities; a few check-ins on how to approach them will keep me steady.
OR-0913 Perspective, Potential, and Purpose
This course helps students connect their values, interests, and priorities to their intellectual and occupational goals.  To help increase their overall motivation and satisfaction both in academics and future careers, students taking this would be interested in addressing one of the following statements:
I am unsure whether I’m in the right major or I’ll be satisfied in my anticipated career.
I would like to build skills to be effective in a future career.
Recently, it’s hard to stay motivated in class and I know something needs to change.
I expected more hands-on learning and I find it challenging to do well in my classes.
I’d enjoy spending a term figuring out my passions and prioritizing things that are interesting to me.
OR-0914 Mind, Mood, and Movement
Self-care is important whether you are a students managing your academic responsibilities or your in a career, managing both professional and personal goals.  This course will help students explore their spiritual, emotional, and physical well-being to find balance in their life. A student considering this course might connect with a statement similar to:
To keep me balanced, I am interested in exploring my mental, emotional and physical health.
Self-care is important, and I would like to be more intentional in my practice of it.
I would take my well-being more seriously if I worked on it with someone else.
I’ve noticed a change in my energy and welcome the opportunity to work on that.
The last few years have been challenging; taking a term to prioritize myself is uplifting.
To register for an OR course, use the
Course Scheduler
or contact the Course Coordinator:
Cassie Vosters
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo