Help With Classes | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Campus Experience
Student Support Services
Raider Center for Academic Success
Help With Classes
Help With Classes
Your success starts here. Our team provides a welcoming and supportive environment for all students to advance their academics.
Calendar
For a schedule of all RCAS resources such as drop-in tutoring, check out our
RCAS Event Calendar
or call our front desk at 414-277-7274.
Tutoring
The Raider Center for Academic Success provides MSOE students with free academic support on a weekly scheduled basis from both peer and professional tutors. Our tutors are certified with Level 1 & 2 certifications from the CRLA. Tutoring is located on the second floor of the Walter Schroeder Library. You can request a tutoring session from
our scheduling website
. Writing assistance can be found through the
Writing Request Form
.
HYPE Desk
Connect with a fellow student who is an expert in what it takes to be successful at MSOE. Drop by to ask questions or schedule a session with a Raider Success Ally. Work with them to target your skills in Exam Prep, Organization, Note Taking, Time Management, or Study techniques! You can request a session from
our request form
.
RSC Courses
RCAS offers a series of courses that help students explore the strategies that will aid in their long-term success.  The courses provide tools to increase accountability and productivity, tactics to maximize the retention and efficiency of learning, as well as strategies to manage energy and motivation for responsibilities as a college student.  Add a Raider Success Course to your schedule to approach college with your well-being in mind.
RSC 0101 Foundations of Students Success
RSC 0102 Academic Coaching and Support
RSC 0103 Perspective, Potential, & Purpose
RSC 0104 Mind, Mood, & Movement
To register for an RSC course, use the
Course Scheduler
or contact the Course Coordinator:
Cassie Vosters
.
Drop-in Tutoring
Looking for support in addition to scheduled tutoring? Drop-in tutoring provides convenient, immediate assistance in core-curriculum courses from a professional staff tutor. All sessions are in the Walter Schroeder Library, no sign-up required! Days, times, and courses are listed
on our calendar
.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo