Partnering with MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Partnering with MSOE
Partnering with MSOE
Sustainable, mutually beneficial relationships support MSOE's vision to prepare leaders to solve the diverse technical challenges of the 21st century.
MSOE was founded out of a desire to advance the regional talent landscape through collaboration with industry and the broader community. We develop a variety of partnerships at a university, department, program, and classroom level. Please see below for the many opportunities available to partner with MSOE.
Corporate & Foundation Relations
Companies and philanthropic organizations partner with MSOE to advance learning and discovery in alignment with shared goals.
Learn more.
Career Connections Center
Recruit highly sought MSOE students for your internship and full-time opportunities.
Visit our employer webpage to learn more.
CREATE Institute
Work directly with our students as project clients, mentors, or guest speakers as they solve real-world problems while developing the MSOE Mindset.
Learn more.
K-12-STEM Outreach
Help build a strong and diverse talent pipeline through our STEM programs, serving more than 5,000 K-12 students annually.
Learn more.
Academic Consulting & Contracted Projects
Leverage the expertise of MSOE faculty members, proven leaders in their fields, to support your organizations objectives through consulting, contracted projects, summer externships and more.
Learn more.
Applied Technology Center
Tap into professional education, trainings, consulting services and applied research that deliver solutions to industry’s biggest challenges.
Learn more.
Philanthropic Support
Give back through annual giving, program support, equipment donations, scholarships, competition sponsorship and more.
Learn more.
Alumni Relations
Activate MSOE alumni at your company through mentoring, volunteering, networking, and philanthropy.
Learn more.
WMSE 91.7
Highlight your business or community group through the Big Sound Downtown, WMSE. MSOE’s unique, award-winning radio station offers Milwaukee's most diverse selection of musical programming and serves as an outlet to spotlight local artists.
Learn more.
Grohmann Museum
Experience the world’s most comprehensive art collection dedicated to the evolution of human work and engage in many unique educational and event opportunities.
Learn more.
Marketing & Community Engagement
Explore opportunities to develop cobranded sponsorships, marketing, events, and experiences that provide mutual benefit and exceed MSOE’s partner’s expectations.
Learn more.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo