Voter Registration | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Current Students
Voter Registration
Voter Registration
Registering to vote is quick and easy! Find everything you need to know to make sure you're ready to cast your ballot on election day.
Upcoming Elections
Spring Primary
- Tuesday, February 17, 2026
Spring Election
- Tuesday, April 7, 2026
Partisan Primary
- Tuesday, August 11, 2026
General Election
- Tuesday, November 3, 2026
Are You Ready to Vote?
MSOE encourages students to take part in the election process. Students eligible under state and federal law will have the opportunity to vote in the upcoming elections. For information about the next election, please go to
MyVoteWisconsin
.
Eligibility Requirements
Voting in Wisconsin is limited to U.S. citizens who are at least 18 years old on Election Day, who have not been convicted of a felony (unless the citizen’s right to vote has been restored), and are resident for at least 28 days, and has a valid photo ID.
Wisconsin's Voter ID Law
All eligible Wisconsin voters, including students, must show an acceptable photo ID to receive a ballot. Eligible voters will also be asked to sign their name in the poll book per Wisconsin Election Law requirements.
Acceptable Photo IDs in Wisconsin
There are many forms of a valid photo ID, which you may already have, that can be used to vote. Anyone with a valid Wisconsin drivers license or Wisconsin state ID card, or any of these documents listed below can be used. All valid photo IDs must be unexpired on election day (however they can expire after election date).
A Wisconsin DOT-issued driver license, even if driving privileges are revoked or suspended. Your Wisconsin DOT-issued driver license does not need to be REAL-ID compliant
A Wisconsin DOT-issued identification card. Your Wisconsin DOT-issued identification card does not need to be REAL-ID compliant
A Military ID card issued by the U.S. Uniformed Services
A U.S. passport book or card
The Following Photo IDs are also Acceptable for Voting Purposes:
A certificate of naturalization (that was issued no earlier than two years before the date of the election)
An identification card issued by a federally recognized Indian tribe in Wisconsin
A driver license receipt issued by Wisconsin DOT (valid for 45 days from date issued)
An identification card receipt issued by Wisconsin DOT (valid for 45 days from date issued)
A Wisconsin DMV ID Petition Process Photo Receipt (valid for 60 days from date issued)
A Veteran Affairs ID card (must be unexpired or have no expiration date)
Photo identification card issued by a Wisconsin accredited university or college
(please see more regarding a MSOE Voter ID card below)
, or technical college that contains the following:
Date the card was issued
Signature of student
Expiration date no later than two years after date of issuance
The university or college ID must be accompanied by a separate document that proves enrollment, such as a tuition fee receipt, enrollment or voter verification letter, or class schedule.
Additional information on Voter ID can be found
here.
Registering to Vote
Under Wisconsin law, a proof of residence document is always needed when registering to vote. If students have registered to vote in the past they can verify that the address and polling location match their current address
online
. If a student previously registered but has since moved, the student likely needs to re-register to vote. In Wisconsin, eligible voters must reside at their address for at least 28 days by Election Day in order to register to vote in that election district or ward.
MSOE Voter ID Card
Students can also vote using a special MSOE Voter ID. Students can apply for their MSOE Voter ID Card at the Campus Life Office, located on the 3rd floor of the Campus Center CC360. Please note this process will take up to 72 hours to complete.
For additional information, please
email Campus Life
and utilize resources on
MyVoteWisconsin
.
Campus Life
campuslife@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo