Submitting a Proposal | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Faculty & Staff
Office of Applied Research and Grants
Submitting a Proposal
Submitting a Proposal
The proposal is a detailed request for funding that must comply with MSOE policies and sponsor requirements. Upon submission, a proposal becomes an official record of what MSOE promised to a sponsor. At MSOE, external grant proposals should be routed through OneAegis for internal review and approval prior to submission to the sponsor. This process ensures that proposals align with institutional priorities and comply with sponsor and university requirements. Faculty are encouraged to begin this process early to allow time for budget review, compliance checks, and required signatures.
All federal grant proposals must be submitted by the institution’s designated Authorized Organizational Representative (AOR). The Office of Applied Research and Grants is MSOE’s designated AOR. This designation means that AOR has the authority to submit proposals and accept awards on behalf of the institution for specific federal opportunities.
Federal agencies that require submission through the designated AOR include:
National Science Foundation (NSF)
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
U.S. Department of Defense (DOD)
National Institutes of Health (NIH)
U.S. Department of Education
NASA
These agencies require that all proposals be submitted through their electronic systems (e.g., Research.gov, Grants.gov, ASSIST, NSPIRES), which are only accessible to individuals with institutional AOR credentials.
To ensure compliance with federal guidelines and institutional policies, faculty and staff must coordinate with the Office of Applied Research well in advance of the submission deadline when planning to apply for these types of federal grants.
If you are unsure whether your proposal requires AOR submission, please contact the Office of Applied Research and Grants.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo