Institutional Review Board (IRB) | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Faculty & Staff
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
The Institutional Review Board (IRB) is an administrative body established to protect the rights and well-being of human subjects recruited to participate in research activities. MSOE complies with requirements set forth in Title 45, Part 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations (45 CFR 46), known as the "2018 Common Rule," as well as Wisconsin State laws and MSOE policies.
All students, staff and faculty at MSOE planning to conduct research involving humans and/or their data will submit an IRB protocol application for IRB review. Investigators must obtain approval from the MSOE IRB before human subject recruitment and research begins.
MSOE IRB Jurisdiction
MSOE Institutional Review Board (MSOE IRB) has jurisdiction over:
Human subject research activities conducted at MSOE
Human subject research activities conducted by MSOE employees, students, or agents at any location
Human subject research activities that use MSOE resources
Federal Regulations
Human subject researchers (e.g. investigators) at MSOE comply with requirements set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations known as the "Common Rule" as well as Wisconsin State laws and MSOE policies. Federally funded multi-site studies requiring single IRB (sIRB) review involve coordinated local oversight by and advanced planning with the MSOE IRB office. In any study, if investigators intend to recruit study participants from locations outside of the United States, the primary investigator (PI) must first secure written approval from MSOE IRB prior to contacting research officials in non-US countries and sovereign nations.
Additional details on regulations are available on the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services website. Please also review the Human Subject Regulations Decision Charts for information on how MSOE IRB determines if an activity is research involving human subjects that must be reviewed.
In accordance with regulatory standards, MSOE IRB is comprised of qualified board members that include at least one non­ scientist and one community representative. MSOE's Executive Vice President of Academics serves as the Institutional Official for the MSOE IRB.
SMART IRB is an online platform designed to ease common challenges associated with initiating multi-site research. To use Smart IRB for a multi-site study, send an email to IRB@msoe.edu
Kristin Shebesta
IRB Administrator
(414) 277-7256
shebesta@msoe.edu
MSOE Grant Policies and Procedures
Please review the MSOE Grant Policies and Procedures webpage for additional information on seeking outside funding and sponsored research.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo