Faculty & Staff Feedback for Student Success | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Faculty & Staff Feedback for Student Success
Faculty & Staff Feedback for Student Success
*
= required field
Name (optional, if you'd like to talk more as we build out the strategic plan)
First
Last
What is your role at the university?
*
Faculty
Staff
Defining Student Success, Well-Being & Engagement
What words or ideas come to mind when you think about  "student success"?
What words or ideas come to mind when you think about "student well-being"?
What words or ideas come to mind when you think about "student engagement"?
Top Priorities for Student Success, Well-Being and Engagement
Top Priorities: What priorities come to mind for improving student success, well-being and engagement?
MSOE Values and Student Success, Well-Being and Engagement
Collaboration: How can different departments/faculty/staff best collaborate to support student success, well-being and engagement?
Excellence: In what ways can our pursuit of excellence in teaching, service and student support ensure that every student is equipped to thrive academically and personally?
Inclusion: How can we foster a more inclusive campus environment where all students feel a true sense of belonging, enculturation, respect and voice?
Innovation: How might creativity and innovation be used to enhance student learning experiences, engagement and well-being, both inside and outside the classroom?
Integrity: How can we ensure that our policies, practices and daily interactions with students reflect integrity and fairness in ways that build trust and promote student success?
Stewardship: How can we use our institutional resources (e.g. time, space, funding and human energy) most responsibly to strengthen student success, well-being and engagement?
Barriers, Personal Passions and Final Thoughts for Student Success, Well-Being and Engagement
Greatest Barriers: What do you see as the greatest barriers to students as it relates to their success, well-being and engagement at MSOE?
Personal Passion: What aspects of student success, well-being and engagement are you most passionate about personally?
Final Thoughts: Do you have any other ideas, reflections, or feedback you’d like to share?
Spam Prevention
*
Please help us prevent spam by using the reCAPTCHA below.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo