International Research | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Faculty & Staff
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
International Research
International Research
For protocols with human research activity taking place in-person or online with participants who reside in countries outside of the United States, additional consideration is required. The PI is responsible for knowing what is expected in non-U.S. locations. If the PI is a student, then, the MSOE faculty or staff member designated as research supervisor for the Student PI is also responsible for knowing what is expected in non-U.S. locations.
To streamline the IRB approval process for international research, be certain your protocol application includes all of the following aspects prior to submitting your protocol via
OneAegis
to MSOE IRB:
In what sovereign nation, country, region, province, city or other geographical location, as applicable, do your potential participants reside? Be as specific as possible. Explain why the location and people there were selected for this anticipated study.
Clearly explain if/when you plan to travel to conduct the research. And, if not, how the research will be successfully completed.
Explain your qualifications for doing research in this location and the experience you have with the location.
Name local residents/contacts who have been involved with the planning of your research and explain their connection to you. Identify any conflict of interest they (or you) may have with the study.
Explain what language(s) potential participants speak and in what language the research will be conducted. Explain your proficiency with the language(s). Who will provide translation and what are their qualifications in doing so? Have your translator provide a letter of qualification describing their training and proven experience with the language in which the research will be conducted to personally certify their credentials.
Explain what governing agency/institution oversees research in this geographic location and the process for gaining approval from the entity. Note: The PI is responsible for gaining approval from the non-U.S. governing agency/institution after MSOE IRB approval has been issued.
Explain cultural, economic, political and literacy considerations that you believe should be understood by your protocol reviewers to inform their understanding of typical potential participants in your study.
Explain if/how results of the study will be communicated with participants and why you have decided this approach is appropriate.
Kristin Shebesta
IRB Administrator
(414) 277-7256
shebesta@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo