IRB Instructions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Faculty & Staff
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
IRB Instructions
IRB Instructions
Considering research with human participants? Let us help!
Consultations are encouraged as you begin formulating your proposal. Email
IRB@msoe.edu
to request a consult.
OneAegis
MSOE uses OneAegis to streamline the protocol submission and review process. Sign into OneAegis to complete human subject research protocols, request for amendments, continuing reviews, report an unanticipated problem/adverse event, and provide a completed study report.
Initial Protocol Approval Process
All students, staff and faculty at MSOE planning to conduct research involving humans and/or their data will submit an IRB protocol application for IRB review. Investigators must obtain approval from the MSOE IRB before human subject recruitment and research begins.
Investigator Responsibilities
Start the approval process by reading the document Investigator Responsibilities.
Required Training
Prior to completing and submitting a protocol application to MSOE IRB, investigators will fulfill human subject research certification through CITI Program. Instructions for registering for a CITI account and details about course descriptions are available in OneAegis. For further assistance with CITI Program, send an email request to
RECR@msoe.edu
.
Qualtrics
MSOE IRB highly encourages researchers to use Qualtrics for their online surveys. MSOE has a Qualtrics campus-wide license as a resource for all faculty, staff and students. To proceed with Qualtrics, send an email request to
IRB@msoe.edu
to have an account created for you.
Continuing Review
Complete a Continuing Review if your MSOE IRB-approved protocol will need to continue beyond the expiration date listed on your MSOE IRB determination letter issued at the time of approval. or if the nature of your project requires annual continuing review, as indicated in the protocol approval letter. If there are
any modifications
necessary, please fill out a Request for Amendment xForm via
OneAegis
. This includes changes to personnel on your study team.
Research work may not continue after the IRB protocol expiration date.
At the completion of your research, or upon expiration, submit a Completed Study xForm via
OneAegis
.
Request for Amendment
Federal Regulations require IRB review and approval of amendments to open protocols to identify any change in the level of risk to research participants and ensure appropriate measures are in place, as needed.
No action may be made to change an approved protocol until the principal investigator (PI) receives written notification from the MSOE IRB Administrator.
Complete a Request for Amendment xForm and submit all new or revised materials to request an amendment to an approved human research protocol via
OneAegis
.
Unanticipated Problem/Adverse Event
Unanticipated events are any deviation from approved protocol procedures including, but not limited to, an injury/illness or unanticipated death of human subject(s), the loss of confidentiality of data, etc. Unanticipated events must be reported to MSOE IRB within 24 hours in the event of a death or serious illness/injury or within 5 days for any other situation.
YOU MAY NOT CONTINUE
to work on your research project until the principal investigator (PI) has received written notification from the MSOE IRB Administrator with approval to resume the project.
Complete a Unanticipated Problem/Adverse Event xForm and submit informed consent documents and any other relevant materials to MSOE IRB for review via
OneAegis
.
Completed Study
Upon conclusion of your approved research study when human participants are no longer recruited, enrolled, studied, or contacted submit a Completed Study xForm via
OneAegis
.
If you are continuing to write reports or analyze data, the protocol may not be closed until all elements are finished. If your project is nearing its expiration date and you need more time, submit a Continuing Review xForm via
OneAegis
to receive a new expiration date.
Kristin Shebesta
IRB Administrator
(414) 277-7256
shebesta@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo