Johnson Controls scholarship to support generations of MSOE students | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Impact of Giving
Johnson Controls scholarship to support generations of MSOE students
Johnson Controls Scholarship to Support Generations of MSOE Students
“I love technology! Pursuing a degree in computer engineering is the best of both worlds, as you get to learn software and hardware skills,” said freshman Samira Perez. As an only child born to immigrant parents in Milwaukee, Perez always dreamed of going to college.
Each year the number of students supported through this scholarship model will increase, making it the largest corporate scholarship gift to MSOE. When fully scaled, the Johnson Controls Scholars program will support 32 MSOE students every year.
“This new scholarship model underscores the significant value we can deliver to students and the broader talent pipeline when industry partners collaborate with MSOE,” said Jeff­ Snow, vice president of university advancement.
The program aligns with MSOE’s strategic commitment to providing resources to foster an inclusive community of experiential learners on campus.
Like Perez, sophomore Julia Neuberger of Lake Mills, Wisconsin, shares a love for learning in the field of biomedical engineering—a field she wouldn’t have been able to pursue without the Johnson Controls Scholars program. “Being selected for this has been a blessing for our family. It relieves the financial burden and stress so that I can focus on my studies,” said Neuberger.
“We are proud of our partnership with Johnson Controls and their commitment to supporting our students on both a professional and personal level,” said Kim Schultz, director of corporate and foundation relations at MSOE. “The new program is a prime example of how we aim to build sustainable, impactful partnerships with corporations across our region.”
MSOE’s Off­ice of Student Aff­airs and Campus Inclusion is working with Johnson Controls alumni ambassadors to coordinate meetups with scholars, provide mentoring and facilitate connections with professional engineers.
“As an alumnus of MSOE, Johnson Controls employee and adjunct professor at MSOE, I know how important it is to develop and cultivate relationships that can help you grow personally and professionally,” said Brian Pfeifer ’10, director of global operations at Johnson Controls. “By helping relieve not only the financial burden but also building a supportive network that encourages connections throughout their academic career, we are ensuring that the industry is getting a strong pipeline of talented, diverse and well-rounded engineers.”
Neuberger and Perez have already started making these connections as they navigate campus.
“Some of the highlights for me have been the connections I’ve made with my peers in biomedical engineering,” said Neuberger. “We have been able to work together closely in labs and have bonded outside the classroom, becoming a big, happy biomedical family.”
Both students are grateful to Johnson Controls and MSOE for making it all possible.
“­Johnson Controls and MSOE are helping lift the financial burden on my family and helping me focus on building relationships with my professors and peers in a professional setting, said Neuberger.”
“I’m a commuter, so being part of this cohort has given me an amazing opportunity to connect and meet new professionals and students,” said Perez. “I come from a low-income family, so the selflessness of MSOE and Johnson Controls has allowed students like myself to pursue higher education at a university of their choice and fulfill a dream for their family. In four years, I’ll be the first-generation in my family to graduate with a college degree.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo