The Impact of Senior Giving | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Senior Giving Campaign
The Impact of Senior Giving
The Impact of Senior Giving
May Khing '24 and Ben Leonard '24 were inspired to leave their mark on campus during their senior year and encouraged others to consider giving back to MSOE as well.
May Khing '24, a nursing graduate, and Ben Leonard '24, a computer science graduate, led by example during their senior year when they supported their fellow peers and their own passions for MSOE's Giving Day on April 18, 2024.
May, who was a student caller within the Office of University Advancement, says it is important for other students to understand the impact of donations. "As a student caller, I enjoyed sharing with other alumni and donors how much MSOE community's support has helped us as students."
May had personally been encouraged and supported by her peers and faculty members in the nursing program. "The faculty were invested in my academic journey and want to see us all succeed."
She supported the nursing program on Giving Day, knowing her gift will provide resources to further enhance the clinical experience for students.
Ben was also a student caller for two years. He offers his unique perspective on how donors can impact the student experience. "Philanthropy at MSOE opens doors to students who might not have the same opportunities."
Thanks to the generosity of philanthropic gifts, Ben was able to travel overseas as part of the German program, stay involved in the rowing team and help guide underclassmen involved in Navy ROTC. Feeling that direct impact of philanthropy, he stepped up as a student ambassador in 2024 to get the word out to his peers about Giving Day.
Both May and Ben agree giving back to the MSOE community is a rewarding experience and a means to support current and future students.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo