Finding Your Purpose While Pursuing Your Passion | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Impact of Giving
Finding Your Purpose While Pursuing Your Passion
Finding Your Purpose While Pursuing Your Passion
Cody Mott spent years searching for a new purpose in his life after serving in the United States Marine Corps. Then a friend encouraged him to apply to MSOE.
“They told me MSOE was one of the best engineering schools in the country,” said Mott. “I chose computer engineering because I have always had an interest in computers and electronics. I enjoy soldering and programming, so it was the perfect fit.”
By the time he enrolled, the Michigan native had gotten married and started a family. He also needed support to cover his education costs. That’s where the generosity of Alvin (Al) and Carol Lang made a huge difference.
In 2022, Al and Carol pledged $25,000 to establish a scholarship supporting MSOE’s veteran students. They wanted to honor the unique experiences and knowledge veteran students bring to engineering and to MSOE’s campus. A veteran himself, Al graduated from MSOE in 1965 with an associate degree in Fluid Power Engineering Technology. He served in the U.S. Air Force for 20 years.
“MSOE provided me with a valuable foundation that served me well in both my military and civilian careers,” said Al. “Carol and I are absolutely delighted to provide scholarship support to Cody and wish him the very best as he pursues his own career. His success is our satisfaction.”
Thanks to the Langs’ generosity, Cody has been able to explore his love of computing and robotics.
“My first year I built and programmed a little robot car that I controlled using micro controllers,” said Cody. “My second year the other robot car we used was controlled solely through input sensors and wiring. I am excited for my future career as a computer engineer.”
Cody is on track to graduate from MSOE in December of 2025 with a computer engineering degree but won’t be away from campus for long.
“I have been accepted into MSOE’s machine learning master’s program. My dream is to work in a robotics research lab or work for a company that produces consumer robotics.”
This career opportunity is made possible through the generosity of the Langs and a mutual admiration for supporting the men and women who serve our country.
“This scholarship has really been a blessing for me and my family,” Cody said. “I’m grateful to the Langs for this support. With my education benefits from the VA, I’m able to get us by and keep us afloat and help my dream of being a computer engineer come true.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo