Faculty & Staff Campaign | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Faculty & Staff Campaign
Faculty & Staff Campaign
Together, for MSOE
At MSOE, our commitment to education and innovation goes far beyond the classroom—it’s a community-wide effort. Each year, the Faculty and Staff Campaign brings us together to support key areas across campus, including academic programs, athletics, student services and more. The heart of this campaign is participation, proving that every gift, no matter the size, truly matters.
In 2025, we not only met our goal of 60% participation—we exceeded it, reaching an incredible 65%! This milestone reflects the dedication and generosity of our MSOE community, and we couldn’t be more grateful. Thank you for helping make our fifth annual campaign a record-breaking success!
Top Departments of the 2025 Faculty and Staff Campaign
Trevor Schmitt
–
Public Safety
with
100% participation
Haley Howard
–
Finance, Financial Aid, President’s Office, Student Accounts, and Academics
with
93% participation
Madeline Jensen
–
Admissions, Enrollment, and Registrar’s Office
with
92% participation
Nathaniel Schmidt
Student Philanthropy Spotlight
From aspiring electrician to electrical engineering student, Nate Schmidt found his spark at MSOE. Now, with scholarships and real-world experience, he's illuminating his path to a career in the power industry.
Read His Story
2025 Faculty and Staff Ambassadors
Dr. Michael Carriere
— Humanities, Social Science and Communication
Robin Gates
— School of Nursing, Counseling and Health Services
Stacey Gehrke
— Information Technology
Dr. William Gonwa
— CAECM and CREATE Institute
Mark Griffin
— Campus Infrastructure, Environmental Health and Safety and Facilities
Dr. Steve Holland
— Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering
Haley Howard
— Finance, Financial Aid, Student Accounts, President's Office and Academics
Madeline Jensen
— Admissions and Registrar's Office
Audrey Kanthack
— University Advancement and Library
Kristen Landaal
— Campus Life, Dean of Students Office, Multicultural Affairs, Raider Center of Academic Success, Residence Life, Human Resources, Student Affairs and Campus Inclusion
Sydney Large
— Athletics
Rachel Listinsky
— Applied Technology Center, Center for Professional Education, Fluid Power Institute, Rapid Prototyping Center, STEM Center, Professional Education and Research Development
Dr. Leah Newman
— Mechanical Engineering
Annette Pirrung
— Grohmann Museum, Mail and Print Services, Marketing Communications, Raider Shop and WMSE Radio Station
Trevor Schmitt
— Public Safety
Stephanie Schultz
— Computer Science and Software Engineering
Ruth Schwartz
— Physics and Chemistry
Gene Wright
— Rader School of Business and Career Connections Center
Meet Our Co-Chairs
Our dedicated 2024-2025 Faculty & Staff Campaign co-chairs are committed to the vision of unity and collaboration that makes up this initiative.
Read Their Stories
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo