Meet Our Co-Chairs | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Faculty & Staff Campaign
Meet Our Co-Chairs
Meet Our Co-Chairs
2026 Faculty & Staff Campaign
Dr. William Gonwa
I am the Program Director for Civil Engineering and a Professor of Civil and Architectural Engineering and Construction Management. I have been teaching at MSOE since 2001, the first nine years as an adjunct. Prior to joining MSOE full-time I worked as a consulting engineer for twenty-five years. Although I loved consulting, I love teaching even more. As a professor, I love the challenge of trying to improve lessons and laboratories to make them as clear and relevant to students as possible. I also love the freedom to explore topics of interest to students and myself.
I have supported various organizations for my entire life, some financially and some as a volunteer. I support organizations that do good, that I believe in, that I have a connection to. That is why I give back to MSOE. MSOE does right by our students. I love bringing visitors to the Robert Spitzer Dining Commons and pointing out the overlooking president’s office. It is a symbol of the central focus we place on our students. I always mention to prospective students that hiring, retention and promotion of faculty is principally based upon our ability to teach and connect with our students. MSOE serves students from all economic levels fostering upward mobility while inculcating values of integrity, inclusion, and excellence. I believe in MSOE’s mission, our vision, and our values.
Finally, what other organization am I more connected with? MSOE has been at the center of my life for almost twenty-five years. This is why I give back to MSOE; it does good, I believe in it, and I am connected to it. The MSOE Faculty and Staff Campaign is not just about raising funds. It is about faculty and staff collectively showing support for what we believe in. I am excited to be part of this campaign and talking with you further about how you can support MSOE.
Hannah Trees
For the past seven years, I have had the privilege of serving as the Women's Basketball coach at MSOE. Currently, I am also serving as the Interim Athletic Director for the MSOE Athletics department. Through coaching—and now in my administrative role—I've seen how deeply a student's experience can be shaped by the opportunities that MSOE provides alongside the classroom.
Extracurricular programming, along with the amazing education we offer, helps students build a strong sense of community, build lifelong friendships and develop life skills to help them reach their full potential. My philanthropic support reflects my deep belief in the transformative value of all these programs at MSOE. By supporting MSOE, I believe we are helping the university give every student the ability to thrive in their time on campus and well beyond. I look forward to working on this campaign with the campus community to continue our work in making MSOE the best it can be!
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo