Meet the Diffleys | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Celebrating our Donors
Parent Leadership Circle
Meet the Diffleys
The Diffley Family
Meet the Diffleys
Jim and Shelley Diffley proudly call Shoreview, Minneapolis their home, where they reside with their three daughters. Their journey with MSOE began unexpectedly during a family trip to Wisconsin, initially intended to explore other universities. However, upon hearing about MSOE's renowned engineering programs, they decided to include a campus tour during their visit. Little did they know, this visit would spark a strong passion for MSOE.
The Diffley family quickly began to feel as if MSOE was a second home for them. Each visit was a new experience. "Every time we visit, we try to stay at a new hotel, eat at new restaurants and embrace all that the city and school have to offer. Our biggest piece of advice would be to 'say yes' and engage as much as possible with the school and city."
The family is drawn to the blend of academic excellence and community that MSOE offers within the exciting city of Milwaukee. "MSOE hires fantastic professors, staff and professionals, maintains facilities, secures new buildings and provides our students with the resources to get an excellent education." After attending family events, such as ROAR, Happy or Not Cocktail Hour, and Homecoming Weekend, the Diffleys had a chance to meet many faculty and staff members and embrace their daughter’s favorite spots on campus. "We feel like MSOE has taken very good care of our daughter while she is
away from home. There are so many great people who make her feel that she is part of the community. We feel like we are part of the MSOE family."
Motivated by the quality of education and experiences MSOE offers, they felt inspired to give back. "We are pleased to donate so that the student experience continues to excel through additional activities, experiences and overall campus involvement. This will only enhance the student experience and make students more excited to be MSOE graduates and alumni."
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo