Make a Scholarship Gift | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Make a Scholarship Gift
Make a Scholarship Gift
Almost every one of our students receives some sort of financial aid, and many of our students rely on privately funded scholarships to make an MSOE education possible. Your scholarship gift can help make an incredible difference in the lives of our students.
There are a number of ways you can make an impact with a scholarship gift at MSOE.
Make a Gift
to
MSOE’s Annual Scholarship Fund
.  Resources from the Annual Scholarship Fund may be used by the university to award scholarships based on financial need or merit.
Make a Gift to an Existing Scholarship Fund
.  MSOE has a number of restricted scholarship funds, which may award scholarships to students in a certain department, major, geographic region or who participate in a student organization. If you would like to make a scholarship gift to an existing fund and need help finding what you are looking for, contact MSOE Development at
development@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7148.
Create a New Annual Scholarship
.  If you, your family or your business have a passion for supporting students at MSOE, you may consider creating your own annual scholarship. The minimum amount to create a new annual scholarship is $25,000, which may be completed over a period of up to five years at $5,000 a year.  If you are interested in learning more about creating an annual scholarship, contact MSOE Development at
development@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7148.
Create an Endowed Scholarship
. Scholarship endowments provide support for our students in perpetuity. The university invests the gift and makes awards from the interest generated in an amount defined by our endowment spending policy. Many donors choosing to make a lasting impact may consider making endowment gifts. If you would like to learn about scholarship endowments, please contact MSOE Development at
development@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7148.
Growing Extraordinary Together Scholarship Campaign
Find out how you can double your impact through MSOE's scholarship matching program.
Learn More
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo