Matt Stachelski Memorial Scholarship and Bike Ride | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Matt Stachelski Memorial Scholarship and Bike Ride
Matt Stachelski Memorial Scholarship and Bike Ride
This annual bike ride honors the life and memory of Matt Stachelski
Remembering Matt
Matt Stachelski was one of the best students to graduate from the Technical Communication (UXCD) degree program in 2011. In class, he proved himself to be an effective researcher, writer, and collaborator; out of class, he led numerous initiatives that benefited the MSOE and Milwaukee communities. His approach toward leadership was through the heart of a servant. He was smart and funny, empathetic and passionate; he was very good at being the best version of himself. Tragically, Matt died in a house fire in October 2015.
Matt exemplified the
MSOE Mindset
long before the university formally defined it. He was a leader of character; a responsible professional; a passionate learner; and a value creator.  To honor his memory and legacy, we created the Matt Stachelski Memorial Bike Ride, which is supported by the Office of University Advancement.
Thank you for Riding with Us!
Thank you to everyone who participated in the 9th annual Matt Stachelski Memorial Bike Ride! Be sure to stay tuned for details on the next ride in 2026.
Why We Ride
The
Matt Stachelski Memorial Bike Ride
is an opportunity for the MSOE community to share a leisurely afternoon cycling together. The bike ride begins on the MSOE campus and then heads up the Oak Leaf Trail to the
Estabrook Beer Garden
Picnic Area 5—where we enjoy refreshments and each other’s company. A brief remembrance of Matt ensues before everyone bicycles back to MSOE.
Past Scholarship Recipients
Benjamin Leshin
, User Experience—2024 Recipient
Angela Hechel
, User Experience—2023 Recipient
Sondra Salgado
, Nursing—2022 Recipient
Sarah Cianciola
, User Experience—2021 Recipient
Elaine Zamudio
, User Experience—2020 Recipient
Sergio Amaya
, Construction Management—2019 Recipient
Ramone Mingo
, Electrical Engineering—2018 Recipient
Austin Basterash
, Mechanical Engineering—2017 Recipient
Austin Campbell
, Mechanical Engineering and Technical Communication—2016 Recipient
This video chronicles the beginning of the scholarship and bike ride named in honor of alumnus Matt Stachelski. Matt was a 2011 graduate of MSOE's Technical Communication program.
2025 Matt Stachelski Memorial Scholarship
Established in 2016, the MSOE Matthew Stachelski Memorial Scholarship Fund honors Matt and his legacy of excellence, dedication, and service. The scholarship provides a deserving MSOE student with an opportunity to continue their education at MSOE.
Make a gift
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo