Student Philanthropy Spotlight | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Faculty & Staff Campaign
Student Philanthropy Spotlight
Student Philanthropy Spotlight
Nathaniel Schmidt
For MSOE electrical engineering junior Nate Schmidt, college hadn’t been on his radar in high school. “I never thought I was ‘smart enough’ and wanted to go into the trades, specifically to be an electrician. However, my parents pushed me to go to college.” Nate is a Milwaukee native and wanted to find a school that was close to home, and he found his fit at MSOE.
From his first week on campus, Nate quickly immersed himself in the activities and organizations that MSOE has to offer. “I became a member of the SAE SuperMileage Team, IEEE and Sigma Phi Delta. All of these organizations have helped shape me into who I am today.” Nate also works as a phonathon caller for the Alumni Center on campus, which he says allows him to connect with MSOE alumni and hear stories from their student days.
Nate’s career goals inspire him to continue to learn as much as possible during his time at MSOE. “I want to work on the power side of electrical engineering. This academic year I’m taking the Power and Machine and EMAG courses. These classes have helped me realize my interest in the power field.” In the summer of 2024, Nate also interned at Eaton and received a return offer to intern there again this summer.
Nate’s MSOE journey was made possible in part by the American Transmission Company Scholarship, and he emphasized just how much impact this has had on his experience. “This scholarship has taken a financial burden off my family’s shoulders. Going to class every day, knowing I have a support system makes me push harder to do better. It truly means a lot to know that there are people who care about my experience at MSOE and want to help.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo