Crowdfunding | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Crowdfunding
MSOE Crowdfunding
Together we can make an impact on our MSOE community.
About Crowdfunding
MSOE crowdfunding enables students, alumni, friends, faculty and staff to collectively impact our community. This unique form of fundraising attracts small contributions from a large number of people to fund specific projects or campaigns. Unlike traditional funds, crowdfunding projects are created and led by MSOE faculty, staff, and students, each with specific funding goals, objectives, and timelines.
Our community is doing incredible work, from Engineers Without Borders developing a steel-reinforced concrete bridge in Joyabaj, Guatemala, to supporting National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) students attending leadership conferences. Supporters can contribute to projects that truly inspire them.
You can now support innovative ideas, urgent causes, and meaningful projects that align with your passions to make our community and the world even better. Projects are always changing, so please visit our crowdfunding site to learn more about the current projects you can support.
If you are an MSOE student, faculty, or staff member and would like your project to be listed on the crowdfunding website, please have your advisor
submit an application
, and the Office of University Advancement will contact you with further information.
2024-2025 Academic Year Application Deadlines
Your application
must be submitted by your faculty or staff advisor ONE MONTH before the desired launch dates as follows:
August 23rd
for Quarter 1 Crowdfunding Projects running September 23 through November 3
October 11th
for Quarter 2 Crowdfunding Projects running November 11 through December 22
January 10th
for Quarter 3 Crowdfunding Projects running February 10 through March 23
*Please note that fundraising activities must be consistent with MSOE’s mission, the Fundraising for Student Groups Policy, and other applicable MSOE policies. Project requests will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis and evaluated based on their alignment with MSOE’s core values. Due to project criteria and available resources, not all projects will be approved. Approval will be communicated through your faculty or staff advisor.
Ashlyn Buchmann
Associate Director of Annual Giving and Parent Engagement
(414) 277-7114
buchmann@msoe.edu
MSOE Crowdfunding Handbook
Review guidelines and resources
Student Group Fundraising Policy
View Fundraising Policy
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo