Meet the James Family | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Celebrating our Donors
Parent Leadership Circle
Meet the James Family
The James Family
Supporting Community and Connection at MSOE
The James family has always
loved engaging
in their student’s education and extracurricular pursuits. Choosing a university in the Cheesehead
s
tate and moving from sunny southern California presented a new adventure for them.
After a memorable family visit
and becoming familiar with Milwaukee, it became clear that MSOE was the perfect fit for their son, Ian. It did not take long for the family to feel at home and part of the campus
community.
"MSOE offers a small-town feel while placing Ian in an exciting city. It’s exactly what he needed after coming from a small private school," Cheryl and Chris James shared.
As parents, they were drawn not only to the school’s strong sense of community
,
but also to its reputation and hands-on approach to education. "We were impressed by the robotics program and MSOE’s four-year
graduation
guarantee," said Cheryl. “MSOE aligned well with our priorities in academics and campus culture."
Outside of the classroom, Ian stays
busy as
a member of the men’s golf team, High Powered Rocketry Club and the Society of Automotive Engineers:
Baja
. Throughout his four years
at MSOE
, he also has embraced the Midwest lifestyle by trying ice fishing, attending Milwaukee sporting events and exploring local restaurants.
Ian’s positive experience and involvement on campus compelled the James family to
support MSOE
. Being involved philanthropically allows them to stay connected to their son despite the distance. "We wanted to
share
our
love
for sports
and student
organizations
that may not receive as much funding," Cheryl added. "It's important for all students to have the chance to find their niche like Ian has."
With their son graduating this coming May, the James family
shares
their experience in
hopes
of encouraging
new
families joining the MSOE community. “Embrace the Midwest culture, get involved and support your student
,” they said.
“Your children may not excel as they did in high school, and that’s okay. Encourage them to seek help, collaborate and immerse themselves in the community. MSOE faculty and staff are very
supportive,
and they encourage your student to utilize office hours and tutoring.” Cheryl also emphasizes the importance of staying engaged: "If you live nearby, attend activities and events. It truly enhances the experience as parents."
The James family embodies the spirit of MSOE—embracing the MSOE community, supporting connection through extracurriculars and
prioritizing
academic
s.
Their commitment to the university reflects that no matter the distance, you can always stay connected to your student’s college experience.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo