Pave the Way | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Pave the Way
Pave the Way
Lay the foundation for tomorrow
Pave the way was developed in 2022 in tandem with the opening of MSOE’s University Terrace. This opportunity allows you to create a specialized message to honor a parent, student, friend, teacher, mentor or recognize your own time as a student at MSOE with an engraved paver.
Your paver will be displayed in the Alumni Plaza located in MSOE’s University Terrace between Viets Tower and Diercks Hall. Your support of this program will go to an endowed scholarship at MSOE and help pave the way for the next generation of excellent MSOE graduates. Pavers are ordered in the summer and installed in the fall by Homecoming weekend.
*After you purchase your paver, a member of the University Advancement team will contact you to confirm your preferred engraving. If we do not receive a response after three follow-up emails, your paver will be engraved with your name, major and class year by default.
Example shown below:
Small Paver | 4” X 6.875” |
$150
Small pavers can hold up to three lines of text with a maximum of 13 characters per line. Characters include spaces and any punctuation.
Medium Paver | 6.875" x 8.25" |
$350
Medium pavers can hold up to five lines of text with a maximum of 17 characters per line. Characters include spaces and any punctuation.
Large Paver | 8.25" x 13.75" |
$750
Large pavers can hold up to six lines of text with a maximum of 27 characters per line. Characters include spaces and any punctuation.
Large Paver with Company Logo | 8.25" x 13.75" |
$825.00
Large pavers can hold up to six lines of text with a maximum of 27 characters per line. Characters include spaces and any punctuation. Corporate logos can only be added to this paver size. Please submit a high resolution black & white jpeg, tif or pdf file logo to development@msoe.edu.
Order a Paver
Support the Pave the Way campaign and purchase a custom paver today!
Purchase here
FAQs
Q. When will pavers be installed in the Alumni Plaza?
A.
Pavers will be installed in the fall, by Homecoming weekend. Once paver orders are submitted to the printer over the summer, a member of the Office of University Advancement will contact you with a proof of your design for approval.
Q. What do I put on my paver?
A.
You can personalize your paver with your name, graduation year, a message of support or a tribute to a loved one. Paver language must follow MSOE’s guidelines for character count.
Q. Can I purchase more than one paver?
A.
Yes! You may purchase multiple pavers to honor different individuals, families or milestones.
Q. Can I change my order (e.g., inscription, paver size) after it has been submitted?
A.
Minor changes can be made within a short window after ordering, but once the paver has entered production, edits or refunds are no longer possible. Please review your order proof carefully before approving.
Q. How will I be notified once my paver is installed?
A.
You will receive a confirmation email from MSOE once your paver has been installed. A photo may also be included, depending on availability.
Q. Can I request a specific location for my paver within the Alumni Plaza, or request placement next to another specific paver?
A.
You may indicate placement preferences when ordering, and we will do our best to accommodate requests, although placement cannot be guaranteed.
Q. Can I make an additional gift to the "Pave the Way" endowed scholarship fund without purchasing a paver?
A.
Absolutely. Donations to the "Pave the Way" endowed scholarship can be made at any time, independent of a paver purchase.
MSOE Donor Relations
(414) 277-7148
development@msoe.edu
The impact of receiving an MSOE paver
Learn how the legacy of MSOE's first K9 therapist and one MSOE graduate are now forever a part of campus.
Read more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo