Paying it Forward to Where it All Began | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Impact of Giving
Paying it Forward to Where it All Began
Paying it Forward to Where it All Began
MSOE is now fully equipped with a
complete
Robotics and Automation laboratory
comprising
Industry 4.0 training simulators and robotic equipment to immerse students in
cutting-edge
advanced manufacturing techniques, thanks to a generous
alumnus.
In 2018, MSOE’s Industrial Engineering (IE) program received a generous gift of two collaborative robots (
cobots
) for use in one of their labs. In 2022, MSOE received another donation from the same source, expanding on the opportunities created by the first. The IE program can now provide students with experiences in technological applications that are used in the industrial environment today. The Robotics and Automation laboratory is already being used by students in courses such as Automation Technologies and Modern Manufacturing Processes.
Since graduating from MSOE with a mechanical engineering degree, Michael Cahill ‘89 has been giving his time and talents to enhance the student experience for generations of Raiders. His efforts are helping students in the engineering world thrive at the ground level.
These developments have filled a gap in the IE curriculum through the contribution of an alumnus who recognized the power of utilizing your strengths and collaboration with others to make a difference. He did just that when he facilitated these gifts through corporate philanthropy, demonstrating his commitment to paying it forward.
“Take time to get involved, the students of today and tomorrow are relying on us to help provide an environment for them to be successful.”
Michael started his career as an Application and Manufacturing Engineering Manager for
Actuant
Corporation (now Enerpac) until 2001 when his division was acquired by Saint
Gobain
, a global manufacturing company. Since then, he’s held several positions until eventually becoming Vice President of
NorPro
& Crystals.
He credits his career success to the classroom knowledge he gained at MSOE and the guidance he received from his
professors and mentors.
One such mentor was Dr.
Robert “Bob” Kern, a professor
and program director for mechanical engineering.
He says his student experience helped him leave campus with an important ideology.
“The essence of the educational philosophy of MSOE is to blend theory with experiential experiences. I have enjoyed a full career in manufacturing and applying design ideas by going to the shop floor and observing performance.”
In addition to his incredible gifts to the IE
program
, he has been serving as a member of MSOE’s Industrial Advisory Council since 2014. An experience he finds extremely rewarding.
“
I welcome the experience to support the mission and provide insight into curriculum, trends and needs in industry.  The experience
is also
beneficial to me
,
as I
’m
able to have direct access to talents in the
u
niversity and provide topics for
s
enior
p
rojects
,” he said.
Today, Mike is the CEO of
Luxium
Solutions, formerly Saint-Gobain Crystals. Since 2022 he has also been serving as a member of MSOE’s Corporate Board which has provided him a platform to help identify the university’s needs on a larger scale.
He is hopeful that his actions through industrial leadership and philanthropy to the university will also inspire other alumni to give back to their alma mater.
“I believe these direct donations set an example of how we alumni must pay it forward to help those who will one day become the leaders of tomorrow.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo