Secure a Matching Gift | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Ways to Give
Secure a Matching Gift
Secure a Matching Gift
Frequently Asked Questions:
What is a matching gift?
When a donor contributes to a nonprofit organization such as MSOE, their employer may be willing to donate an equal or greater amount to the same nonprofit. A matching gift is a great way to double or even triple your contribution to MSOE.
How do I know if my employer offers matching gifts?
From the
Ways to Give
page, use the search function to find your employer. In most cases, you’ll find resources specific to the company such as minimum and maximum match amounts, restrictions on the types of gifts matched, other program guidelines, and even matching gift forms. If your employer is not listed, we recommend consulting your human resources or benefits office.
How do I initiate a matching gift?
Most employer matching gift programs require the donor to submit an online or paper form to secure a match. After making your donation to MSOE, complete your employer’s form and follow any instructions they provide. Please contact University Advancement gift processing at (414) 277-7151 or
advancementops@msoe.edu
with any questions on the matching gift process.
MSOE's mailing address is:
Milwaukee School of Engineering
Attn: University Advancement
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202-3109
What is the deadline for having a gift matched?
Deadlines are established by each matching gift company and can vary from 30 days to more than a year from the date of gift. To confirm the deadlines associated with your employer’s matching gifts program, please visit our Matching Gifts page, or consult your employer’s human resources or benefits office.
I’m retired. Will my former employer match my gifts to MSOE?
Many companies extend their matching gift programs to retirees. Please visit our Matching Gifts page or consult your employer’s human resources or benefits office for additional information.
Can my spouse’s gift to MSOE be matched by my employer?
Many companies extend their matching gift programs to employees’ spouses. Use the search function on the
Ways to Give
page or consult your employer’s human resources or benefits office for additional information.
What is MSOE’s tax ID number / EIN?
MSOE is exempt from federal income taxes under Section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Our federal tax identification number is 39-0477970.
Additional Questions?
Please contact Gabriella Imburgia, Advancement Operations Coordinator, at
imburgia@msoe.edu
or (414) 277-7151.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo