An insider interview with Mechanical Engineering department chair, Dr. Sudhir Kaul. | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Celebrating our Donors
An insider interview with Mechanical Engineering department chair, Dr. Sudhir Kaul.
An interview with Dr. Sudhir Kaul
An insider interview with Mechanical Engineering department chair, Dr. Sudhir Kaul
Q: What are some exciting aspects of your department at MSOE that individuals who haven't visited in the past five years or didn't attend MSOE should be aware of?
SK:
The capital investments we have been making in robotics and automation as well as additive manufacturing are allowing us to offer unique experiences to our Industrial Engineering and Mechanical Engineering students. We have been adding substantial laboratory capabilities to enhance experiential learning opportunities for our students. We have also been adding simulation software experiences in the curriculum. The transition from quarters to semesters has allowed us to incorporate substantive project-based learning experiences into the curriculum. I am confident that individuals who haven’t visited us in the last five years will be pleasantly surprised with the significant enhancements of our laboratory capabilities and our successful transition to semesters.
Q: How do you perceive the differences in the types of jobs students are now competing for compared to when you began your tenure?
SK:
The industry demand for our students in Industrial Engineering and Mechanical Engineering is very strong. Hiring managers often commend our students for their ready-to-work skills. The types of jobs for Industrial Engineers and Mechanical Engineers have evolved over time and employers expect new hires to be multifaceted with interdisciplinary skills and an ability to adapt to new technologies. Critical thinking skills and analytical skills are seen as essential components of the job in addition to subject-matter expertise.
Q: Since you began your tenure, what have you noticed to be the most significant changes in student learning and the diverse array of job opportunities students are now vying for?
SK:
Over the years, student learning has been become more and more active and engaged. Students have become more independent in assimilating their learning experiences while looking for opportunities for hands-on learning. Our focus on experiential learning at MSOE offers our students multiple avenues to apply their learning in different ways and thereby gain an in-depth understanding of the subject-matter and take ownership of their learning process. Many new job opportunities require students to have an ability to analyze and interpret data and use a wide range of analytical tools. The Industrial Engineering and Mechanical Engineering programs prepare students with an adequate balance of curricular breadth and depth while taking advantage of specialized technical electives, project-based learning, and hands-on experiences.
Q: Where do you see room for growth or opportunities for the ME Department?
SK:
We have substantial room for growth in our Industrial Engineering program. We also see lots of opportunities for our graduate program. We are in the process of establishing strategic priorities for the department for the next three years. One of these strategic priorities will be revamping our graduate program offerings to leverage our existing areas of strength such as fluid power while developing curriculum in areas such as robotics and automation as well as additive manufacturing. We also seeking opportunities in undergraduate research. Furthermore, we are hiring new faculty to further strengthen some of the areas of study while building expertise in some new areas of study.
Q: Since your role at MSOE is relatively new, what has impressed or surprised you the most about MSOE?
SK:
Student engagement in experiential learning opportunities has impressed me immensely. We have more than ten very active student organizations in our department and many of these organizations regularly participate in regional and national competitions. Participation in these student organizations provides multiple avenues of peer-to-peer learning, exposure to open-ended design, networking opportunities, etc. Faculty mentorship of these student organizations takes significant time and effort, and many faculty members in our department are heavily engaged with the mentorship of these student organizations. I have been very impressed with the dedication and engagement of our faculty and staff.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo