Fostering Connections from Sweets to Scholarships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Giving
Impact of Giving
Fostering Connections from Sweets to Scholarships
Fostering Connections from Sweets to Scholarships
As a local, family-owned chemical manufacturing and distribution company, Hydrite has a legacy of recognizing potential across Milwaukee and giving back to the community.
In 2023, Hydrite formed a partnership with MSOE’s STEM Center supporting one of the Center’s most popular programs to date.
MSOE’s Candy Chemistry program was designed by MSOE faculty member Dr. Anne-Marie Nickel to teach 3
rd
-5
th
grade students about chemistry through fun experiments using candy. Hydrite’s sponsorship and volunteer support of the program
has
allowed the STEM team to expand Candy Chemistry, now running two sessions each year. Erin Egstad, recruiting manager for Hydrite, was looking for an opportunity to engage the company’s employees and spread the word about the importance of STEM education.
“Because of Hydrite’s support we can keep the program’s costs low, support faculty-led instruction and provide scholarships for students with financial need,” said Liz Taylor, Director of STEM. “Hydrite employee volunteers also made it possible for us to expand the class size.”
For Courtney O’Connor, Lead Analytical Chemist at Hydrite, the program has been a great way for her to share her expertise with students and engage with them in an exciting way.  “As a chemist myself, I remember my love of chemistry starting at a very young age when I was exposed to fun, hands-on experiments, so it’s extremely rewarding to have a helping hand in doing the same for these students,” she said.
Today, Hydrite’s partnership with MSOE continues to grow. In January, the company established the “Hydrite STEM Scholars Award” to support two MSOE scholarships for students majoring in mechanical
engineering, biomedical engineering,
biomolecular engineering
, chemical engineering
or chemistry. Thanks to MSOE’s
Growing Extraordinary Match Fund
, a new scholarship-matching gift program, Hydrite’s initial support will have double the impact, funding four annual scholarships beginning this fall.
“Hydrite has a rich legacy of fostering support within the communities where we operate. The Hydrite Helps program was founded on four core pillars:
c
hildren’s
n
eeds &
d
evelopment,
e
ducation,
e
nvironment, and addressing local needs. Through this new scholarship
with MSOE
, we are proud to intersect multiple facets of our pillars, and further deepen our partnership
with the university,
”
Erin said.
Whether teaching elementary kids about the chemical makeup of a Snickers bar or providing funding to help educate future engineering professionals, Hydrite’s partnership with MSOE illustrates how
working together can lead to new ways of helping the community and inspiring future generations.
As for Courtney, she can already see the influence of Hydrite’s partnership on young learners. “I truly enjoy seeing these students exposed to so many diverse and fun hands-on chemistry experiments that help them question and wonder about the world around them. The absolute best part is seeing their faces light up when they discover something new for the first time.”
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo