Building Features | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Grohmann Museum
Building Features
The Museum
The Museum welcomes visitors to three floors of gallery space where the permanent collection is displayed along with special feature exhibitions. The Museum also has a spectacular rooftop sculpture garden, penthouse, auditorium, library, museum store, lounge and workshop.
1 / 2
Look up next time you're standing in the atrium of MSOE's Grohmann Museum, and you'll see a 700-square foot ceiling mural called "The Element of Fire," by German artist Hans Dieter Tylle. The mural depicts some of history's great thinkers: Marie Curie, Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Johannes Gutenberg and Leonardo da Vinci.  The artist's commentary in this video was recorded in 2007 during construction of the Grohmann Museum.
2 / 2
The 700 square foot, circular atrium ceiling mural at MSOE's Grohmann Museum was so large, it was painted in sections and shipped to the museum for installation. You'll see the unboxing, careful trimming to fit the space, and final touch up by the artist, Hans Dieter Tylle. Recorded in 2007.
Artistic Details
The renovated, three-story, 38,000-square-foot concrete structure was built in 1924 as an automobile dealership that for many years was called Metropolitan Cadillac, owned by Glenn Humphrey. In more recent times, the Federal Reserve Bank occupied the building until it ceased operation there in 2004.
The Grohmann Museum has a magnificent mosaic floor in its glass entryway. Designed by German artist
Hans Dieter Tylle
and created by German Gabriel Mayer, the mosaic draws on images from the collection and features five images of men and women at work – a farmer, textile worker, blacksmith, foundry worker and miners – plus some of the implements used in these trades.
The atrium’s ceiling features a 700-square-foot circular mural,
The Element of Fire,
by Tylle, depicting great thinkers: Marie Curie, Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Johannes Gutenberg and Leonardo da Vinci.
The atrium dome features eight commissioned stained-glass works that replicate paintings from the collection. Designed by Tylle and created by Mayer, the windows represent men and women in the roles of rolling miller, hay harvester, blacksmiths, carpenter, cooper, quarryman, working at a river valley iron smelter, and building the Tower of Babel.
Rooftop Sculpture Garden
A dozen large, bronze sculptures – men toiling in the field and foundry, heaving hammers or pinching molten metal with hot tongs – perch on the roofline of the Grohmann Museum. These fellows, each about 9 feet tall and weighing in at a thousand pounds a piece, have a commanding view of a city that was built on the hard work they depict.
Virtual Tour
Explore and interact with a 3D virtual tour of the museum.
Take a Closer Look
Gallery Hours & Museum Admission
1000 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-2300
grohmannmuseum@msoe.edu
GALLERY HOURS:
Monday-Friday:
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday:
12 to 6 p.m.
Sunday
:
1 to 4 p.m.
MUSEUM ADMISSION:
General admission:
$5.00
Students / Seniors:
$3.00
Children under 12:
Free
MSOE students (with ID), alumni, faculty and staff: Free
facebook
instagram
twitter
Host an Event/Book a Tour
The Grohmann Museum is available for your event or tour booking.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo