Google Arts & Culture | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Grohmann Museum
Google Arts & Culture
Google Arts & Culture
Through Google Arts and Culture, the Grohmann Museum can now be explored by people around the world who would have normally been limited by physical proximity.
History
Founded in 2011, Google Arts & Culture strives to connect museumgoers to an infinite library of exhibitions, statues, and other memorable works of art. Digitally preserving that art creates inspirational opportunities for future generations. James Kieselburg, the Grohmann Museum director, said, “The Grohmann Museum is joining the Google Cultural Institute to make the collection more widely accessible to a global audience. There's no substitute for the real thing, but the interactive tools that will be available alongside our collection online will certainly enhance the experience for remote visitors." Take a look for yourself the wonders a simple internet connection can provide.
Home to the world’s most comprehensive art collection dedicated to the evolution of human work.
A selection of exceptionally beautiful and important paintings from the Man at Work Collection housed at the Grohmann Museum at Milwaukee School of Engineering.
It takes work to create art. An artist may spend months on a single painting; a musician rehearses for hours before an audience hears them play. Every performance requires countless hands who set up the stage, the lights, and build the set.
Captivating images of miners, steel workers, and more from famous sculptors including Constantin Meunier, Frederic Remington and Max Kalish, among others.
Featuring a selection of German paintings from the Grohmann Museum collection with insight on the ‘Heroic School’ of industrial painting.
Few artists permeated 19th century German culture like Carl Spitzweg. Some twenty-plus works by Spitzweg have found their way to Milwaukee. This one-of-a-kind exhibition evokes affection, love, humor and other emotions that translate easily to our current age.
Virtual Tour
Explore and interact with a 3D virtual tour of the museum.
Take a Closer Look
Gallery Hours & Museum Admission
1000 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-2300
grohmannmuseum@msoe.edu
GALLERY HOURS:
Monday-Friday:
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday:
12 to 6 p.m.
Sunday
:
1 to 4 p.m.
MUSEUM ADMISSION:
General admission:
$5.00
Students / Seniors:
$3.00
Children under 12:
Free
MSOE students (with ID), alumni, faculty and staff: Free
facebook
instagram
twitter
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo