Exhibitions & Events | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Grohmann Museum
Exhibitions & Events
Exhibitions & Events
Current and upcoming exhibitions and events at the Grohmann Museum.
Current Exhibition
Jan. 16 – April 26, 2026
Dave Clay’s Industrial Atmospheres
Milwaukee native Dave Clay is an artist, software architect, engineer, and musician. Now hailing from Seattle, he works in a variety of media including digital collage, metal, large-scale interactive sculpture, and painting. Among his diverse body of work, Clay’s industrial landscapes stand out as particularly novel and captivating. Though he works in a high-tech field, he is both drawn to and moved by the most elemental of industrial processes.
Clay’s industrial paintings are at once exquisite, shadowy, and other-worldly. They provide a virtual sensory experience, in which we not only see, but can almost feel the heat and smell the steam and smoke of the mills, foundries, and forge shops he captures. These industrial landscapes and interiors provide an amazing opportunity for the museum and its patrons as a compelling start to our 2026 exhibition season.
As expressed in his words: “My industrial landscape paintings portray altered and atmospheric visions of real steel mills and furnaces. The subjects of these paintings are the strange and beautiful machines at the foundation of our modern society. The paintings evoke the heat of molten metal at the heart of the steel mill, a place alien in complexity yet a fundamentally human construction. I want to give my paintings the weight and physicality of heavy industry while elevating the ethereal quality of these chaotic, living foundries.”
Upcoming Exhibitions
May 7
– August 23
, 2026
WE THE PEOPLE: Portraits of Veterans in America
Opening Reception: May 7 from 5-8 p.m. with an artist's talk at 6:30 p.m.
Participation in the Blue Star Museums program last summer has prompted us to find new ways to explore veterans’ contributions to American industry through art. We are grateful to showcase Mary Whyte's watercolor series,
WE THE PEOPLE: Portraits of Veterans in America
, a project that ties the art of labor to the impact of veterans' work throughout our country.
Renowned watercolor artist Mary Whyte has captured scenes of working America and honored the nation’s working class throughout her career, and in this remarkable series, she has depicted military veterans of all ages and in all walks of life. For this show, Whyte traveled the country, interviewing each individual featured in this exhibition over the course of seven years. Through her work, we see the individuals who have served our country in the military, in the ways that they continue to serve the country in industry—from agriculture to education to public service. The result is fifty large-scale watercolor portraits of everyday American veterans, including a Missouri dairy farmer, a Rhode Island lobsterman, and a Pennsylvania science teacher. Altogether,
WE THE PEOPLE
presents a timeless portrait survey of the United States through labor and human achievement.
May 7
– August 23
, 2026
Boots and Sand: The Marines of 29 Palms
Photographs by Dennis Darmek
Boots and Sand: The Marines of 29 Palms
began serendipitously in 2024. On a family trip to Joshua Tree, the artist Dennis Darmek decided to make an unplanned visit to the Marine Corps Combat Center, 29 Palms, California, resulting in this photo project. His only other visit to 29 Palms was in 1969 when, as an 18-year-old Marine, he received advanced weapons training before shipping out to Vietnam. Darmek says while memories can be suspect after 50 years, it’s impossible to forget the intense desert heat and rugged mountains of the Mojave Desert.
Upcoming Events
March 19, 2026 | 12-1 p.m.
Sketching in the Galleries: Third Floor
Draw inspiration from the artwork around you and create pencil sketches in the galleries. Each month we will focus on a different part of the collection. Art supplies and stools are provided.
April 11, 2026 | 12-4 p.m.
Industrial Atmospheres LEGO Workshop
The Grohmann Museum's annual LEGO building event returns for its 11th year on Saturday, April 11 from 12 - 4 PM. LEGO experts and art educators, John and Sylvia Peine, will lead the workshop in the Museum's first floor galleries. Inspired by the current exhibition,
Dave Clay's Industrial Atmospheres
, participants will create imaginative LEGO builds that incorporate heavy machinery, factories, and vibrant colors. Completed builds will be placed on display for all to see. All skill levels are welcome and volunteers will be available for guidance.
The workshop is included with admission:
Adults: $5
Students/Seniors: $3
Children under 12: Free
MSOE community: Free
April 17, 2026 | 5-8 p.m.
Spring Gallery Night
Visit the Grohmann Museum and receive free admission during Gallery Night. Our featured show is
Dave Clay's Industrial Atmospheres
in the first floor galleries. MSOE's Art & Design Club will also unveil their new exhibition,
A Garden of Memories: Nostalgia
, in the lower level.
April 18, 2026 | 12-6 p.m.
Spring Gallery Day
Visit the Grohmann Museum and receive free admission during Gallery Day.
April 23, 2026 | 12-1 p.m.
Sketching in the Galleries: Special Exhibition
Draw inspiration from the artwork around you and create pencil sketches in the galleries. Each month we will focus on a different part of the collection. Art supplies and stools are provided.
May 7, 2026 | 5-8 p.m.
Grand Opening of
WE THE PEOPLE: Portraits of Veterans in America
Join us for the opening of
WE THE PEOPLE: Portraits of Veterans in America
in the first floor galleries. An artist talk from Mary Whyte will take place at 6:30 p.m.
May 8, 2026 | 10 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Watercolor Workshop for Veterans
Local veterans are invited to join artist Mary Whyte for a free watercolor workshop at the Grohmann Museum. All skill levels are welcome, especially beginners! Mary will be demonstrating the fundamentals of watercolor, with veterans working from a selection of imagery.  If preferred, veterans can bring their own photo to work from. All painting supplies are donated by the
Patriot Art Foundation.
Registration is required
, attendees may
register online
or call the Grohmann Museum at 414-277-2300.
Stay tuned for more upcoming events by
joining our mailing list
and following us on
social media
.
Past Exhibitions
2025
The Legend Lives On
—
50 Years Later
The
Kalmbach
Art
Collection
: Pairing Words and Imagery
Going to Work for the Community: A Visual History of the Beckum-Stapleton Little League
On the Edge: The Labor and Environment of Dimensional Stone Quarries
2024
Gil Reid and Friends: Working on the Railroad
Crossing the DMZ: A Contemporary Look at Working Women
Patterns of Meaning: The Art of Industry by Cory Bonnet
H.D. Tylle at Seventy: American Worklife
2023
Mining Gems: Stories from the Collection
Excavations: Paintings and Drawings by Michael Newhall
David Plowden: The Architecture of Agriculture
2022
A Time of Toil & Triumph: Selections from the Shogren-Meyer Collection of American Art
Familias Unidas: Tribute to the Migrant Farm Worker Labor Movement in Wisconsin, 1960s-70s
Robert O. Lahmann: Working in Wisconsin
2021
The Railroad and the Art of Place: Photographs by David Kahler
artWORK by the League of Milwaukee Artists
Electric Steel: Recent Photographs by Michael Schultz
2020
TWO EDMUNDS: Fitzgerald and Lewandowski—Their Mark on Milwaukee
IRONBOAT: New Photography by Christopher Winters
2019
The Magnificent Machines of Milwaukee
Roll Up Your Sleeves
Growing Place: A Visual Study of Urban Farming
2018
David Plowden's Portraits of Work
Wallace W. Abbey: A Life in Railroad Photography
The Art and Mechanics of Animation
2017
Masterworks from the Grohmann Museum - Celebrating 10 Years
Artists at Work: The Cedarburg Artists Guild
STEEL: The Cycle of Industry by David Plowden
2016
On the Job: Photography by Jim Seder
Milwaukee's Industrial Landscapes: Paintings by Michael Newhall
Art of the North Shore Line
2015
Forge Work: New Photography by Michael Schultz
Metal for Mettle: Historic Commemorative Medals Honoring Labor and Achievement
H.D. Tylle: Studies
Carl Spitzweg in Milwaukee
The Art of the Milwaukee Road
2014
Erich Mercker: Painter of Industry
Art Shay: Working
Trains that Passed in the Night: Railroad Photographs of O Winston Link
2013
A Working Ranch by Jim Brozek
Born of Fire: Scenes of Industry from the Westmoreland Museum of American Art
Bridges: The Spans of North America - Photographs by David Plowden
2012
MSOE at Work: Selections from the Campus Archives
Carl Spitzweg: The Poor Poet and Other Characters
Great Lakers: Selections from the Great Lakes Marine Collection of the Milwaukee Public Library
H. D. Tylle: Touring Germany and Working in Wisconsin
2011
Requiem for Steam: The Railroad Photographs of David Plowden
Milwaukee Mills: A Visual History
Lake Boats: The Photography of Jim Brozek and Christopher Winters
Wonders of Work and Labor: The Steidle Collection of American Industrial Art, Penn State University
2010
Working Wisconsin: Selections from the Museum of Wisconsin Art
Foundry Work: A View of the Industry, The Photographs of Michael Schultz
2009
Midwest Murals: Joe Jones and J.B. Turnbull from the Haggerty Museum of Art, Marquette University
The Bookworm by Carl Spitzweg (1808-1885)
Wisconsin at Work: Thorsten Lindberg Paintings and Drawings from the MCHS Collection
Cradle of Industry: Works from the Rhineland Industrial Museum
American Steel: Works from the Collection of Tom and Lorie Annarella
2008
A Focus on Figures
Stone
2007
Physicians, Quacks, and Alchemists
Virtual Tour
Explore and interact with a 3D virtual tour of the museum.
Take a Closer Look
Gallery Hours & Museum Admission
1000 N. Broadway
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-2300
grohmannmuseum@msoe.edu
GALLERY HOURS:
Monday-Friday:
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday:
12 to 6 p.m.
Sunday
:
1 to 4 p.m.
MUSEUM ADMISSION:
General admission:
$5.00
Students / Seniors:
$3.00
Children under 12:
Free
MSOE students (with ID), alumni, faculty and staff: Free
facebook
instagram
twitter
Host an Event/Book a Tour
The Grohmann Museum is available for your event or tour booking.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo