Inauguration of Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D. | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Inauguration of Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Inauguration of Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Friday, April 24, 2026
Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D. will be inaugurated as the sixth president of the university on Friday, April 24, 2026. Special events commemorating this momentous occasion will be held throughout the week of April 20–25.
Professional Experience and Educational Background
Baumgartner began his term as MSOE’s sixth president on Jan. 1, 2026. He previously served as the Executive Vice President of Academics at MSOE. Through this role, he provided strategic leadership and direction for academic programs and academic support units across campus. Prior to joining MSOE, Baumgartner served as
dean of the T.J. Smull College of
Engineering and professor of mechanical engineering at Ohio Northern University. He also served as a senior member of the
engineering
staff at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, where he played an influential role on the Mars Exploration Rover flight project team which designed, built, launched and operated the Spirit and Opportunity rovers on the surface of Mars. Baumgartner also taught at UCLA and Michigan Technological University. He holds a bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Notre Dame, a master’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Cincinnati, a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the University of Notre Dame and a certificate from the Institute for Educational Management at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Inauguration Week Events
MSOE is holding AI Week April 20-25, 2026 in conjunction with the inauguration of President Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D. Join us as we celebrate MSOE and the exploration of AI across education, industry and society. To register and view full AI Week event details, visit
msoe.edu/ai-week
.
Wednesday, April 22
Inauguration Wine Tasting Event
–
Invitation only
Thursday, April 23
Trivia with the Baumgartners
| 2:30–4:30 p.m.  | Campus Center, Collaboration Café
Students are invited to flex their brainpower at Trivia with Dr. and Mrs.  Baumgartner.
Enjoy light refreshments, prizes and the chance to win the grand prize of dinner with the Baumgartners!
Friday, April 24
Presidential Luncheon
–
Invitation only
Inauguration Celebration
| 2–3:30 p.m. | Kern Center
Join us as we celebrate the inauguration of Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Open to students, faculty, staff, alumni and community members.
Registration required. Kindly refer to the RSVP details included in your inauguration invitation.
Inauguration Celebration
Kern Center
Doors Open: 1:15 p.m.
Program Begins: 2 p.m.
Welcome – Dr. Richard G. Galling ’73, '75, Chair, MSOE Board of Regents
Invocation
Presentation of Colors
Greetings & Institutional Voices
Guest Speakers
J.D. Yoder, Ph.D.
Jennifer Trosper
MSOE Jazz Band Performance
Investiture of President Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Inaugural Address – President Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Closing Remarks
Recessional
Inauguration Reception | 3:30–4:45 p.m. | Kern Center
Enjoy jazz music provided by WMSE 91.7FM, light refreshments, mingle and meet the Baumgartners.
VIP Dinner -
Invitation only
Due to space limitations, registration is required for the Inauguration Celebration. Kindly refer to the RSVP details included in your inauguration invitation.
Directions and Parking
Campus Map
MSOE Leadership
Questions or Special Needs
Inauguration Celebration RSVP
Due to space limitations, registration is required for the Inauguration Celebration. Kindly refer to the RSVP details included in your inauguration invitation.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo