Inaugural Symbols and Traditions | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Inauguration of Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D.
Inaugural Symbols and Traditions
Inaugural Symbols and Traditions
University inauguration ceremonies are steeped in tradition, featuring symbolic items that represent the transfer of authority, institutional history and academic responsibility.
The Presidential Medallion
The medallion, or chain of office, presented to President Eric T. Baumgartner, Ph.D. during the inauguration ceremony is an antique bronze medal featuring the official seal of Milwaukee School of Engineering, suspended on ribbon of red. Engraved on the back of the medallion are the names of MSOE’s presidents and their years of service:
Oscar Werwath – 1903-1948
Karl Werwath ’36 – 1948-1977
Robert Spitzer, Ph.D. – 1977-1991
Hermann Viets, Ph.D. – 1991-2015
John Y. Walz, Ph.D. – 2016-2025
The MSOE seal evolved in three stages. The original, designed by the institution’s founder, Oscar Werwath, was a simple, wheel-shaped crest. It was embellished only by the name of the school and the symbol of the electrical sparks. The theme of the tomoe was incorporated in 1927. The present form was developed in 1935. Since then, it has been the proudly displayed emblem of a world-renowned technical university.
The central design of the seal is the tomoe, three whirling discs or commas found in old oriental art which represent air, fire and water, the three elemental forces of nature. Grouped in a circle, these discs form a wheel, man’s first engineering accomplishment with which he was able to control natural forces.
Superimposed on the tomoe are representations of the foundation of an MSOE education. The hammer, compass and sparks found at the base of the unit represent the applications-oriented curriculum. Above, and to the right, are the book and quill of knowledge and theory. The hand and flaming torch of knowledge complete the triad and honor the pursuit of excellence.
Surrounding the tomoe is a wreath of wheat sheaves signifying virility and high scholastic honors. The outer ring of the seal features the university’s name, and pays honor to Oscar Werwath, who founded the institution in 1903. The border of the seal is formed by a series of rings which represent the concentric curriculum, a unique educational system pioneered by the founder.
The official seal symbolizes formal authority vested in the university. It is a mark of authentication and institutional sanction. Use of the seal is reserved for the highest official university documents.
The MSOE Mace
Originally, the Mace was a heavy banded or spiked club used in warfare in the Middle Ages to support authority or power. When turned upside down, the Mace denotes peace, and it is in this position that it is carried in the Commencement procession. Over time, the Mace became a symbol of dignity and authority for those who ruled with knowledge. The MSOE Mace is a symbol of an era in which dignity and leadership are achieved through education, knowledge and truth.
At the base is a globe. It represents both MSOE’s international reach of drawing students from all over the planet, and educating students about knowledge from all over the world. An industrial diamond is set at MSOE’s location on the sphere.
Coming forth from the world are items and engravings symbolizing the educational programs offered by the university. The gear, pulley and piston represent mechanical engineering. A rotor and stator represent electrical engineering. A computer microchip represents computer and software engineering. Also depicted are symbols relevant to engineering, business and nursing, including the Ohm’s law pyramid, an electric motor, spring scale, flowchart, operational amplifier, a building and a person.
The integration of triangles represents management’s role of interdisciplinary actions between teams and their activities. The obelisk reaching to the light symbolizes beauty and enrichment of form. A cube at the top denotes the year of the founding of the university in 1903 and the name of the founder, Oscar Werwath. The dash gear above the cube represents the flame of knowledge and the shining light of truth and beauty.
When the Mace is carried, the world is placed in the marshal’s hands. This is a sign that our destiny is in the hands of mankind. The Mace represents a charge to the university and to the graduates to use their education to influence the general welfare of the world.
The Mace is a way of life. The light of knowledge symbolizes that enlightenment comes from educated people, not from the authority of one or a few. The MSOE Mace has an ultimate goal of freedom, justice and equality for all.
The Mace was a gift from Walter O. Helwig, late Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Regents. It was designed by Professor Emeritus Paul Feuerstein and machined from aluminum in the Mechanical Engineering Department. This original text was written by Professor Emil Symonik and later updated by Nicholas Seidler.
Inauguration Celebration RSVP
Due to space limitations, registration is required for the Inauguration Celebration. Kindly refer to the online RSVP details included in your inauguration invitation.
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo