Knapp Street Building | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Knapp Street Building
Knapp Street Building
310 E. Knapp St.
When MSOE acquired the building at 310 E. Knapp St. on March 1, 2023, the property included an existing federal lease administered by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) that had been in place since September 16, 1999. Prior to the acquisition, discussions with the GSA indicated that the agency intended to vacate the space within several months. Based on that understanding, MSOE’s long-term plan was to renovate the facility for academic use following the termination of GSA’s tenancy.
However, after the acquisition, the GSA elected to continue its occupancy beyond the original lease term while federal agencies determine their next steps. Under the terms of the inherited lease and federal authority allowing the government to require continued occupancy, MSOE is obligated to accommodate the tenant during this period.
We understand that some members of our community hoped the space would already be available for university use. That remains our long-term goal. In the meantime, MSOE is fulfilling its legal responsibilities as landlord to the federal government.
-Oct. 22, 2025
Frequently Asked Questions
When did MSOE acquire the Knapp Street Building?
MSOE acquired the property on March 1, 2023.
Was there an existing lease on the property at the time of acquisition?
Yes. The building had an existing federal lease administered by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), which began on September 16, 1999.
What were MSOE’s plans for the building after acquisition?
MSOE intended to renovate the facility for academic use once the federal government vacated the space.
Has the GSA vacated the building?
No. Although initial discussions suggested the GSA would vacate within a few months of MSOE taking ownership, they have elected to continue occupancy while federal agencies determine their next steps.
Is MSOE required to allow the GSA to remain in the building?
Yes.
When will the building be available for university use?
There is no confirmed timeline.
Why isn’t the building already being used by MSOE?
GSA has a leasehold interest in the building and continues to occupy it.
Does MSOE have the ability to end the lease at the end of the term?
Federal law allows the government to continue occupancy in the premises past the current lease term. This means MSOE does not have the unilateral right to end the lease at the end of the term. The federal government can exercise eminent domain and extend the term of the lease. Just like a property owner doesn’t have a choice if the government wants to buy its land to build a hospital or firehouse, a landlord doesn’t have a choice but to extend the lease if the government says it needs to remain in the space.
Did MSOE extend or renew the lease for the Knapp Street building beyond 2026?
In July 2024, GSA extended its lease for the Knapp Street building through April 19, 2028. As explained above, federal law permits the government to remain in the premises beyond the original lease term. Under the terms of the July 2024 extension, GSA has the right to terminate the lease at any time on or after April 19, 2026
. Only GSA holds the unilateral right to terminate the lease before its scheduled expiration on April 19, 2028.
Does MSOE have authority over what happens within the Knapp Street building?
GSA is the tenant and they maintain authority over which federal department uses the facility.
-
FAQs updated Feb. 13, 2026
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo