Learn By Doing | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Learn By Doing
Creation Resource Centers
Turn your concept into reality!
Whether you’re just getting started, have a new idea, or are ready to get your product prototyped and patented, MSOE has the resource center for you. Learn more about the Cove, Innovent Center and Applied Technology Center™ and discover which one is the right place for your project.
The Cove
Location: Viets Tower, ground floor
The Cove is an extension of the CREATE Institute and provides students, faculty, staff and alumni with the opportunity to explore their curiosities. Programming at The Cove is grounded in the exposure, practice, and integration of the Entrepreneurial Mindset: Curiosity, Connections, and Creating Value. Experiential learning opportunities are supported at The Cove through open lab hours at the Nelson Prototype Lab and hands-on workshops and guest speaker series in the Ladish Co. Entrepreneurial Space.
Email the CREATE Institute
to learn more.
The Innovent Center
Dr. Kimbel and Elaine Nap Entrepreneurial Lab
Location: Rosenberg Hall, R-101
Part of the Rader School of Business, the Innovent Center
®
is dedicated to interdisciplinary exploration and collaboration. It’s an information resource center for all MSOE students, alumni, faculty and staff to work, experiment, brainstorm, collaborate, learn, study and work together toward commercializing invention or starting a business.
Visit
msoe.edu/innovent
or
email The Innovent Center
to learn more.
Applied Technology Center
Location: Science Building
The Applied Technology Center™ (ATC) uses MSOE faculty, staff and student expertise to solve technological problems confronting today’s industry. The center undertakes hundreds of industry-sponsored research projects that are primarily focused on providing real solutions to some of industry’s biggest problems.
The ATC is home to several centers of excellence, including the
Rapid Prototyping Center (RPC)
located in Krueger Hall. The RPC is an applied research center that helps businesses achieve prototypes and end-use parts more quickly and take products to market faster.
Visit
msoe.edu/atc
or
email the ATC
to learn more.
The Cove
create@msoe.edu
The Cove provides students with the opportunity to explore, invent and prototype innovative engineering designs through open lab hours on a weekly basis as well as workshops, guest speakers and networking events monthly.
The Innovent Center
Part of the Rader School of Business, the Innovent Center is dedicated to interdisciplinary exploration and collaboration.
Learn more
Applied Technology Center
The Applied Technology Center™ (ATC) uses MSOE faculty, staff and student expertise to solve technological problems confronting today’s industry.
Learn more
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo