Rethink What's Possible Podcast | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Rethink What's Possible Podcast
Rethink What's Possible Podcast
Hear why MSOE is the Milwaukee School of (more than) Engineering.
In MSOE's Rethink What’s Possible podcast, our host Tom Crawford, station manager at 91.7FM WMSE, sits down with MSOE students, faculty, staff, alumni and community partners to learn more about their inventions, research, industry trends, projects, experiences and how they’re rethinking what's possible.
Learn more about what’s to come in the first season of Rethink What’s Possible, the MSOE Podcast.
Where Can I Listen to the Podcast?
Rethink What’s Possible is available on all your favorite podcast streaming platforms, including Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts and Spotify.
Click any of the logos below to stream the podcast, and you can also listen to episodes directly at the bottom of the page.
Season 1
Intro Episode: Welcome to Rethink What's Possible
Learn more about what’s to come in the first season of Rethink What’s Possible.
Episode One: Life After Shark Tank
Alumnus Matt Mundt shares his experience starting his own company, Hug Sleep, and how swimming with the sharks on Shark Tank helped propel his business forward.
Episode Two: Erasing the Stigma
Industry experts Dr. Carol Sabel, MSOE School of Nursing chairperson, and Sue McKenzie Dicks, vice president of healthy culture at Rogers Behavioral Health, discuss the importance of mental health with recent graduate Jake Egan, who shares his own personal mental health journey.
Episode Three: Humanizing Machine Learning
Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming prominent in more and more industries each day, including health care. Listen to Dr. Sheila Ross, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department chairperson; Dr. John Bukowy, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department assistant professor; and student Ethan Hindes discuss the advancements of AI, its impact on their research on kidneys with the Medical College of Wisconsin, and how Hindes found his way to computer science.
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo