Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge
The Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge
2026 Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge: Tuesday, April 21, 2026
Are you up to the challenge?
You’ve seen Rosie, now it’s time to demonstrate your skills in using MSOE’s supercomputer!
MSOE Regent and alumnus Dr. Dwight Diercks is challenging MSOE students to make use of Rosie. If you’re taking your course work to the next level, developing a side project or completing something else notable using Rosie, this is for you! First-time Rosie users are encouraged to enter as well. Create a poster, short paper, or short video presentation on what you did and how you used Rosie.
What problem did you solve using Rosie?
Is there a solution you’ve developed with Rosie to improve a process, or answer to a difficult question?
The opportunities are endless! Share your best work for a chance to win amazing prizes. Open to any MSOE student or team of MSOE students.
How to Submit an Entry
To submit your entry, please
email Rosie_S.lqe6tdwasggor3ys@u.box.com
and include your submission as an attachment
. You should receive a confirmation message from Box that the file was uploaded successfully. If you have any issues uploading or if your file size exceeds the email attachment limit, feel free to email riley@msoe.edu.
Deadline to Submit Entries
The deadline to submit entries for the Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge is
11:59 p.m. on Friday, March 27, 2026
.
Awards
1st place: $10,000
2nd place: $6,000
3rd place: $4,000
Multiple NVIDIA GPUs and DGX Spark Computers will be awarded by judges at the finals
Judges
Dr. Dwight Diercks ’90, NVIDIA senior VP of software engineering, MSOE Regent
Nick Haemel ’02, NVIDIA VP of medical imaging and system software, MSOE Regent
Dr. Jeremy Kedziora, PieperPower Endowed Chair of AI
Dr. Derek Riley, MSOE computer science program director
Final Presentations
Poster Session: 4 p.m.
Finalist Presentations: 5-6:30 p.m.
Join us on Tuesday, April 21 at Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall for a poster session with this year's entrants and the finalists' presentations before the judges, followed by an award ceremony.
1 / 5
Follow third place team NourishNet as they explain how they utilized Rosie in the 2024 Supercomputer Super Challenge
2 / 5
Highlights from the first-ever Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge in 2022
3 / 5
Unique to MSOE, the supercomputer is available to undergraduate students, offering them the ability to apply their learning in a hands-on environment to prepare for their careers.
4 / 5
The name of this number-crunching behemoth was inspired by the women who programmed one of the earliest computers – the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer (ENIAC) and captured in the documentary “Top Secret Rosies – The Female Computers of WWII.”
5 / 5
With its B.S. in Computer Science degree focused on artificial intelligence and the supercomputer, as well its AI for Emerging Applications undergraduate certificate and Machine Learning graduate certificate, MSOE is forging new frontiers in AI education.
News
Students
05.02.2024
Super challenge, super winners
Third annual Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge competition sees highest level of student participation
Forty-seven students competed and showcased their…
Read More
Students
04.24.2023
Music to their ears: Students win Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge for Music Transformers project
Jonny Keane and Michael Conner took home the grand prize at the second annual Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge for their Music Transformers project…
Read More
Academics
04.14.2023
MSOE students to present findings in second annual Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge
For the second year, MSOE students have been challenged by Dr. Dwight Diercks ’90, MSOE Regent, to utilize Rosie the Supercomputer in the Rosie Supercomputer…
Read More
Academics
05.06.2022
MSOE students awarded in first-ever Rosie Supercomputer Super Challenge
MSOE students were challenged by MSOE Regent and NVIDIA Senior VP of Software Engineering Dr. Dwight Diercks ’90 to use Rosie, the university’s very own…
Read More
Dr. Derek Riley
MSOE Computer Science Program Director
riley@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo