MSOE Mindset | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
The MSOE Mindset
Developing the MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset
Building on its strong history of industry partnerships in a unique and impactful way.
At MSOE, we have a different way of thinking, acting and existing. It's a way of life that our faculty, students, staff and alumni exhibit each day which inspires us to make an impact within our communities - it's the MSOE Mindset.
What is the MSOE Mindset?
It is an assimilation of the
Servant-Leader Mindset
, the
Entrepreneurial Mindset
, and MSOE’s strategic plan, mission, vision, values and commitments. The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Faculty will focus on helping students develop the MSOE Mindset throughout their educational journey. By leveraging its industry partnerships, incorporating high-impact educational practices throughout campus, enhancing educational programs to deepen experiential learning, MSOE will ensure that all students use real-world projects in their field of study.
How are we living the MSOE Mindset?
1 / 5
Video 1: Just what do we mean by the MSOE Mindset? (Use red arrow or swipe left to advance to second video.)
2 / 5
Video 2: The MSOE Mindset identifies our graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. (Use arrow or swipe left to advance to third video.)
3 / 5
Video 3: It defines what is required to have the character of an MSOE graduate. That’s the MSOE Mindset. (Use arrow or swipe left to advance to fourth video.)
4 / 5
Video 4: It’s about being bigger than yourself; thinking about society, your peers, where you work, who you work for and what you do. That’s the MSOE Mindset. (Use arrow or swipe left to advance to fifth video.)
5 / 5
Video 5: One of the many examples of how our students and faculty live the MSOE Mindset: MSOE’s chapter of Engineers Without Borders captured their year-long process of planning, design and construction of a 163’ long cable suspended bridge wide enough for passage of three-wheeled taxis (tuk-tuks) with the community of El Temal in Joyabaj Guatemala. (Documentary produced and edited by Maya George ’17.)
Dr. Eric Baumgartner
Vice president of academics
“While the articulation of the MSOE Mindset is new, the attributes that comprise this mindset have been visible on campus for a long time. There are faculty members who are successfully teaching the servant-leader mindset and others who are successfully teaching the entrepreneurial mindset. By fostering the MSOE Mindset throughout campus, we are preparing our graduates for the ever-changing world.”
Academics
03.14.2023
MSOE Mindset to be the focus of multi-year curriculum integration initiative
Milwaukee School of Engineering is embarking on an initiative to further implement and institutionalize the MSOE Mindset.
The MSOE Mindset ensures MSOE…
Read More
Academics
04.11.2019
The MSOE Mindset visits the Menominee Indian Reservation
Students enrolled in MSOE’s University Scholars Honors Program visited the Menominee Indian Reservation in northeastern Wisconsin to learn how the Menominees…
Read More
Academics
04.10.2019
Industrial engineers improve process, create work opportunities
Classroom experiences that enable students to solve real-world problems are the hallmark of an MSOE education and an illustration of the MSOE Mindset—and…
Read More
Academics
11.15.2018
The MSOE Mindset travels the world
In February 2018, a group of 12 MSOE students and faculty visited El Ocote in rural Honduras with the goal of learning more about the savings-and-loan…
Read More
Academics
08.30.2018
‘Mindset’ highlights the MSOE difference
MSOE is building on its strong history of industry partnerships in a unique and impactful way—the MSOE Mindset. It is an assimilation of the Servant-Leader…
Read More
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
CREATE Institute
Project-based experiential learning is at the heart of the CREATE Institute, and how students will develop the skillset and mindset they need to solve the complex challenges of today and tomorrow. It is a resource for industry engagement and academic excellence.
Learn more
How Do You Live the #MSOEMindset?
Share how you live the Mindset each day by using the hashtag #MSOEMindset on your favorite social media platform! Have a longer format story or experience that you'd like to share? Use the form below.
Submit your story
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo