Internships | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
The MSOE Mindset
Preparing for Success
Internships
Internships
Internships are a valuable addition to your MSOE student experience - they let you use your new skills and work with experienced professionals to solve real industry problems. Join your fellow Raiders in working in an internship - typically 80-85% of MSOE students have one or more while at school.
Here's how you'll benefit...
You'll see and experience the direct application of what you're learning in your classes and labs.
You'll gain experience in a professional setting - something that's in high demand by employers.
Working in an internship will make it easier to get more!
You'll expand your professional network, both within the company and with their network of customers, suppliers, contractors, etc.
Do great work, and your company is likely to offer you another internship or full-time offer.
You'll earn some great money!
How to get your internship...
It's easier with help from the Career Connections Center!
Schedule an appointment
, and we'll help you with your job search, creating an effective resume, strengthening your interview and networking skills, preparing for career fairs, evaluating your job offers, and anything else you need for your career and professional development.
Be sure to attend
Career Fairs
-
Hundreds of employers will be offering internship opportunities.
More and more
internship opportunities are posted on Handshake every day
. Log-in to your
Handshake
account often.
Ensure your Handshake profile is strong and complete,
because employers are using Handshake to look for and contact MSOE students. They value your strong skills and experiences - make sure they're highlighted in your profile, so they can find you!
Visit the
Career Connections Center
online for more information, resources, and our Drop-In Hours schedules.
Handshake is your ONE-STOP-SHOP for all things career…
Find 1000s of Internship and Full-Time Jobs
in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and nationwide
Schedule an appointment
with a Career Coach or find out when you can
Drop-In
See the
companies
coming to the next Career Fair - it changes right up to the day before the event, so check often
Learn when
employers are on campus
to meet you
Find events
that will help you become a HI-PO (High Potential) candidate
The Career Connections Center sets you up with a Handshake account on your first day of school, and you’ll have access to it after graduation and throughout your career.
If you've already logged in to your Handshake account before, just go to
joinhandshake login
and get back into your account with your MSOE username and password. We encourage you to update your profile!
For first-time log in: Go to
joinhandshake login
, and log-in with your MSOE username and password. Then follow the steps until you get to your account landing page. We encourage you to create your profile!
For help with all things Handshake, visit their
Help Center
.
If you're an
Employer
and would like to hire MSOE students for your internship opportunities, please visit our
Career Connections Center Employers Page
for more information about On-Campus Recruiting at MSOE.
Career Connections Center
1025 N Broadway
CC370
Milwaukee, WI 53202
(414) 277-7120
career-services@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo