The MSOE Mindset | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
The MSOE Mindset
The MSOE Mindset
Not all college degrees are created equal.
At Milwaukee School of Engineering, you get more out of your degree. More personal attention. More practical experience. More career power. We are inspired to make an impact within our communities by being leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. We call it the
MSOE Mindset
, and you’ll feel the difference from the moment you step on our campus until long after you graduate.
1 / 3
There are lots of reasons why MSOE is the right university for you.
2 / 3
One of the most important investments you'll make is your education. An education from MSOE means direct entry into programs, a four year graduation guarantee, learning in the heart of Wisconsin's tech hub, application oriented and hands-on learning, and so much more. Now more than ever, MSOE is a S.M.A.R.T. decision.
3 / 3
Solve complex challenges on day one of a new job? Check. Graduates who are consistently in high demand by national and international employers? Check. A degree from MSOE opens doors to opportunities you may never have imagined.
Our graduates are in demand for their skills and the mindset they've developed. Just consider our enviable average
96% career outcomes rate
for the Class of 2024-25 (that’s in your field, not working at a fast food joint) and
$77,161
average starting salary
(the highest early and mid-career salaries of any Wisconsin university, according to PayScale Inc).
So how does an MSOE education lead to such phenomenal student success?
Hands-on experience
— Our students spend more time in labs than they do in classrooms. Our undergraduates clock an average of 600 hours of lab time in industry-standard facilities.
Personal attention
— With a student-faculty ratio of 12:1, average undergraduate class size of 21 students and average lab size of 11 students, MSOE provides an intimate learning environment that will help you achieve your best.
MSOE Mindset
— The MSOE Mindset identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. Our faculty focuses on helping students develop this mindset throughout their educational journey.
High-quality teaching
— You won’t find teaching assistants here, and our faculty have an average of seven years of industry experience.
Incredible location
— Our home in downtown Milwaukee gives you convenient access to major companies for internships and other field experiences (plus plenty of nightlife and weekend fun).
We also offer direct admission into your major and a four-year
graduation guarantee
. It’s no wonder that MSOE has been ranked the No. 2 Best Value College in Wisconsin in 2026 (Niche) and the 4th Best Value School in the Midwest (
U.S. News & World Report, 2026
).
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Graduate Inquiry Form
Fill out the graduate inquiry form
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo