Hermann Viets Tower | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Hermann Viets Tower
Hermann Viets Tower
Reimagined residence hall grows MSOE’s community of learners.
Hermann Viets Tower, a living-learning community for MSOE students, officially opened its doors to students in August 2021. Formerly Roy W. Johnson Residence Hall, the $37 million renovation and expansion was completed thanks to continuing philanthropic support. The living-learning community encourages academic success and gives students with similar academic, social and personal interests the opportunity to live together, collaborate and share experiences. The building is named in honor of the late Dr. Hermann Viets, MSOE’s fourth president.
What are the new features in the building?
48 new bedrooms added (four new rooms per floor).
6 ADA rooms and a single ADA accessible bathroom on each floor.
New bathrooms on each floor.
Housing capacity increased from 450 beds to 552 beds.
New air conditioning unit in each bedroom.
Two-story collaboration hubs constructed in a southern-facing, glass enclosed addition overlooking the Milwaukee skyline.
Modernized rooms with flexible furniture to serve the diverse needs of students.
One study space located on each floor.
Original concrete columns give a rustic touch and homage to RWJ.
1 / 5
Viets Tower opened its doors to students August 2021.
2 / 5
Each room features modernized, flexible furniture that enables students to rearrange and customize their spaces to fit their needs.
3 / 5
A collaborative study space can be found on each floor of Viets Tower. Flexible furniture and white boards provide students with the perfect area to study with a group or individually.
4 / 5
A southern facing, glass enclosed addition overlooks the Milwaukee skyline. The two-story collaboration hubs are the bright, inviting spaces for students to study and hang out with friends and floormates.
What is a Living-Learning Community?
Living-learning communities (LLCs) are unique housing groups that allow students to extend their learning beyond the classroom and enable the university to continue fostering the growth of the
MSOE Mindset
, which identifies graduates as leaders of character; responsible professionals; passionate learners; and value creators. LLCs create comprehensive in- and out-of-class learning environments that offer heightened levels of student engagement with faculty, peers and their own learning.
Regarded as a high-impact educational practice, LLCs have shown demonstrated impact on student engagement, retention, graduation and personal success by integrating students into a community of like-minded learners. The new space will help MSOE to continue attracting high-caliber students from around the globe, improve student satisfaction, and give them a residential experience to match the quality of the education they are receiving.
Viets Tower Construction Tour
Get a first look at Viets Tower during construction.
Want to live in Viets Tower?
Contact the Residence Life Office:
(414) 277-7400 or
living@msoe.edu
Inside Viets Tower
Get an inside look at Viets Tower with Urban Milwaukee.
Inside Viets Tower
About Dr. Hermann Viets
Dr. Hermann Viets served as president of MSOE from 1991 until his retirement in 2015. He was only the fourth president in the 114-year history of MSOE. Under his leadership, the campus footprint grew dramatically and the university added several degree programs that fueled enrollment. In his retirement, he continued to serve MSOE as a member of the Board of Regents.
During Dr. Viets’ presidency, MSOE implemented new programs including several undergraduate international study-abroad programs and a baccalaureate two-degree program. The university added Bachelor of Science degrees in actuarial science, biomolecular engineering, civil engineering, construction management, nursing, and software engineering. New Master of Science degrees also were added, including perfusion, nursing, an MBA, MBA in education leadership and MBA in STEM leadership.
From the expanded campus to the new degree programs, and from the finest leadership to the humble personality, we will always remember and honor the legacy that Dr. Viets has on our campus.
In Memoriam: Dr. Hermann Viets
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo