Connect with MSOE | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Connect with MSOE
Connect with MSOE!
From one-on-one chats with our Dean of Admissions, to Q&A sessions with members of our faculty, Student Life and other MSOE teams, we're here to connect with you online!
One of the most important investments you'll make in life is your education. We know that there is an abundant amount of information out there which can make the college selection process intimidating for both prospective students and parents. We've created this page as a resource to help you in that selection process, making it easy for you to learn more about MSOE, including:
Hear directly from our faculty, staff and students in the form of Facebook Live and other recorded virtual events
Virtual tours
of our campus and the neighborhood that we call home
A degree from MSOE
really pays off
... and then some!
Mark your calendar for
upcoming virtual events
- where you'll have the opportunity to interact and ask questions LIVE
Connect directly
with our admissions team
Apply to be a MSOE Raider
(It's the easiest application you'll complete and only takes 10 minutes!)
Sign up for enrollment’s
Virtual Visit
series, to learn about different majors, campus life, and get a better understanding of all of MSOE’s offerings.
1 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Kiesha Johnnies, coordinator of clinical practice, coaching and alumni in our Rader School of Business. Kiesha answered questions about our MBA-Education Leadership program and more! (Recorded May 6, 2020)
2 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Andrew Slembarski, director of music and coordinator of bands. Andrew answered questions about our music program, the options for students to choose from and much more! (Recorded May 5, 2020)
3 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Dr. Jordan Beck, assistant professor in our user experience (UX) program. Dr. Beck answered questions about the UX program, collaborative projects and partnerships that students are involved with, and much more! (Recorded May 1, 2020)
4 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Dr. Tim Valley, vice president of enrollment and student affairs. Dr. Valley answered questions about admissions, the MSOE Mindset, life in Milwaukee, opportunities for students, and much more! (Recorded April 29, 2020)
5 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Nikki Ratts, sophomore biomedical engineering student. Nikki answered questions about the the biomed program, why she chose MSOE, living on campus, how she balances academics and athletics, and much more! (Recorded April 26, 2020)
6 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Dr. Steve Williams, professor and chair of our Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department. Dr. Williams answered questions about the EECS program, our new super computer Rosie, internship opportunities for students, and much more! (Recorded April 24, 2020)
7 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Garrett Schultz, sophomore in our industrial engineering program. Garrett answered questions about life as a Raider, ways to get involved on campus, living on campus, the IE program, and much more! (Recorded April 22, 2020)
8 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Kip Kussman, MSOE's Dean of Students. Kip answered questions about life as a Raider, ways to get involved with clubs and student organizations on campus, living in Milwaukee, MSOE's traditions, and much more! (Recorded April 19, 2020)
9 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Mark Anderson, director of transfer, international and graduate admissions. Mark answered questions about the admissions process for transfer and international students, provided helpful tips for new students coming to MSOE, and more! (Recorded April 18, 2020)
10 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Dr. Michael Payne, associate professor in our Rader School of Business (RSOB). Dr. Payne answered questions about our business programs in the RSOB, specific tracks within our business degrees, helpful tips for new students coming to MSOE, and more! (Recorded April 15, 2020)
11 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Michael Pitrof, sophomore architectural engineering student. Michael answered questions about why he transferred to MSOE, his life as a Raider in Milwaukee, classes in the architectural engineering department, and more! (Recorded April 13, 2020)
12 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Dr. Bill Farrow, associate professor in our mechanical engineering department. He answered questions about MSOE, his career path, the ME department, helpful tips for students, and more. (Recorded on April 8, 2020)
13 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Betty Albrecht, assistant dean of students/residence life. She answered questions about MSOE, living on campus, life as a Raider and more! (Recorded April 5, 2020)
14 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Danielle Valley, junior nursing student. She answered questions about MSOE, her experience as a member of Global Brigades, life as a Raider, her nursing classes, and more! (Recorded March 30, 2020)
15 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Casey Seneczko, director of traditional admissions. Casey answered questions about MSOE, the admissions process, helpful tips for parents and prospective students, and much more! (Recorded March 29, 2020)
16 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Seandra Mitchell, MSOE's dean of admissions. Seandra answered questions about MSOE, the admissions process, financial aid, helpful tips for parents and prospective students, and more! (Recorded March 27, 2020)
17 / 18
In this episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Renee Malecke, junior nursing student. She answered questions about MSOE, life as a Raider, her nursing classes, and more! (Recorded March 27, 2020)
18 / 18
In the first episode of our Facebook live series, you'll meet Ayush Patel, freshman civil engineering student. Ayush answered questions about MSOE, his life as a Raider, classes in the civil engineering department, and more! (Recorded March 27, 2020)
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Virtually Tour Our Campus!
Get to know MSOE! Our virtual tour of campus will take you to the spots that you'll become familiar with during your time as a Raider. Located in the heart of downtown Milwaukee, MSOE is perfectly situated just blocks from Lake Michigan, the entertainment district, and so much more.
Take a virtual tour
Helpful Tips from Dean Mitchell
Our Dean of Admissions Seandra Mitchell recently chatted with FOX6 News and CBS 58 in Milwaukee to share helpful tips and tidbits of info for parents and students to navigate the college process.
Selecting a College
Navigating Financial Aid
Undergraduate Admissions
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo