Women Developing Wisconsin | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
Women Developing Wisconsin
Women Developing Wisconsin
The Women Developing Wisconsin Conference (WDW) is designed to provide learning and networking opportunities to empower women in the construction, business, finance and real estate industries.
Building Your Influence for Lasting Impact
Thursday, April 16, 2026 | 11 a.m. - 5:15 p.m.
Dwight and Dian Diercks Computational Science Hall
1025 N. Milwaukee St., Milwaukee, WI 53202
Registration Fee:
$75
Students
: Free (Must register in advance to attend)
Registration closes on Friday, April 10, 2026, at 5 p.m. CT.
View the Full Schedule
|
Register Here
Milwaukee School of Engineering’s Center for Professional Education is proud to host the annual Women Developing Wisconsin Conference. The afternoon is filled with networking opportunities, presentations and panel discussions. The theme for 2026 is
Building Your Influence for Lasting Impact.
Thank you to the more than 200 people who attended in 2025! We look forward to offering another great conference in 2026.
Conference Highlights
Keynote | Influence Without Permission: Building Power, Credibility and Legacy
Kiesha Bamiro, area vice president of community engagement, Aurora Health Care
Panel Discussion | Advancing Women's Economic Influence and Leadership
Jennifer Abele, founder and managing partner, VC 414
Emily Garofalo, LEED AP, development property manager, Dominion Properties
Rebecca Gries, executive director, Milwaukee 7 Regional Partnership (M7)
Michelle Lee, owner, Clean Choice
Workshop | Your Identity Evolution: The Foundation for Lasting Impact
Kellie Hamilton, founder and leadership coach, Kellie Hamilton Coaching & Consulting LLC
Complimentary Headshot Photos
(10:30 a.m. - 12 p.m. & 3:45 - 5:15 p.m.)
Become a Sponsor
Sponsors help make the Women Developing Wisconsin conference a success each year! The funds raised through WDW are used to support the conference and professional development opportunities for students and emerging professionals.
Click
here
to become a sponsor.
*Sponsorship participation must be confirmed by Friday, March 20, 2026 to receive full recognition benefits.
Platinum: $5,000
10 tickets to WDW Conference
3-minute message from the sponsor during opening remarks
Podium mention during opening remarks
Exhibit table (6 ft) and space for standing banner
Logo on PowerPoint slide during opening remarks
Logo on day-of conference signage
Logo on conference website, linked to company website
2 LinkedIn posts with company tagged, pre-conference
Post conference thank-you post on LinkedIn, with company logo among other sponsors
Logo on printed conference schedule
Gold: $2,500
5 tickets to WDW Conference
Podium mention during opening remarks
Exhibit table (6 ft) and space for standing banner
Logo on PowerPoint slide during opening remarks
Logo on day-of conference signage
Logo on conference website, linked to company website
1 LinkedIn post with company tagged, pre-conference
Post conference thank-you post on LinkedIn, with company logo among other sponsors
Silver: $1,000
3 tickets to WDW Conference
Space for standing banner
Logo on PowerPoint slide during opening remarks
Logo on day-of conference signage
Logo on conference website, linked to company website
Post conference thank-you post on LinkedIn, with company logo among other sponsors
Bronze: $500
2 tickets to WDW Conference
Logo on PowerPoint slide during opening remarks
Logo on conference website, linked to company website
Post conference thank-you post on LinkedIn, with company logo among other sponsors
Conference Committee
The WDW conference would not be possible without the dedication of our
volunteer committee members
. Thank you!
Thank You to Our 2026 Sponsors
Platinum Sponsors
Gold Sponsors
Silver Sponsors
Bronze Sponsors
WDW Mission and Vision
Our Mission:
Women Developing Wisconsin (WDW) provides learning and networking opportunities to empower women in male-dominated industries.
Our Vision:
Women Developing Wisconsin helps women of all ages build a strong support network and learn from each other.  Focusing on women in male-dominated industries such as construction, business, finance, technology, and real estate, the group promotes leadership through learning sessions, empowerment panels, and networking opportunities.
Contact WDW
Register for the WDW Conference
Don't miss your chance to take part in an afternoon filled with inspiring stories and networking opportunities.
Register Today!
Connect with us
Stay up-to-date with conference announcements and developments.
LinkedIn
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo