You Belong at MSOE! | MSOE
Skip to Main Content
Home
You Belong at MSOE!
All that's missing is you!
Make your mark at MSOE.
Nationally recognized academic programs, faculty who are passionate about teaching, and small classes sizes where you are more than just a number—that’s what you’ll find at MSOE. So, what are you waiting for? See what MSOE has to offer.
In a world filled with uncertainties, actuaries use mathematics, statistics and software to help organizations avoid risk—and take advantage of it.
MSOE's architectural engineering degree provide you the know-how to build efficient, sustainable structures safely, quickly and within budget through classroom theory and real-world practice in state-of-the-art labs.
Face the challenges of the dynamic global marketplace with confidence as a graduate of the Rader School of Business. MSOE’s industry-driven and technology-focused Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree prepares students for success in business and beyond.
Graduates of MSOE’s computer science program will be prepared to write cutting-edge software to solve tomorrow’s problems with a special emphasis on machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Construction managers are the people who get things done. They make sure that projects—from skyscrapers to stadiums to subdivisions—are built well, on time and on budget.
The MBA in Education Leadership program prepares leaders to become outstanding principals and school leaders. It combines education leadership with a business/entrepreneurial mindset – for those ready to enact transformational change at the individual, school and district level. This is a different kind of program for a different kind of leader.
The MSOE Nursing curriculum integrates a strong technology base that will make you a better caregiver. The two track options make an MSOE Nursing degree accessible to many different types of students.
Are you tech-savvy and creative? When you look at a mobile application, do you see ways it can be improved to help users achieve their goals? Thanks to UX leaders such as Apple, Google, and Amazon, consumers expect their digital service experience to be clean, simple, and user-friendly regardless of the device or platform.
Undergraduate Application
Invest in your future. Apply now to MSOE!
Start the application process
Visit Us
The best way to learn more about MSOE is to visit the campus in person.
Schedule a Tour
Get to Know MSOE!
Explore our campus before visiting in person. Use our interactive map to visit our buildings, see our athletic facilities and check out the Milwaukee neighborhoods that we call home.
View our map
Menu
Search
submit
Resources For…
MSOE University
1025 North Broadway
Milwaukee,
WI
53202-3109
(800) 332-6763
explore@msoe.edu
Connect With MSOE
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
YouTube
Vimeo